Ladies and Gentlemen, 
It is a privilege and an honor for me to address you at this important con ference. 
Let me at the outset commend the Republic of Chile for successfully presiding over this 
anniversary of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC. 
I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to the Gover nment of Spain for making this 
conference possible here in Madrid under such a heavy time pressure.  
Chile and Spain have truly demonstrated leadership by facilitating this important global dialogue 
at a critical time. 
A quarter of a century ago we first met in this setting in Berlin. 
A lot has changed since then. 
The rate of climate change has increased dramatically wit h more severe impacts on our 
ecosystems, livelihood and economies. 
The recent IPCC Special Reports clearly outline these negative effects. 
In the past 25 years we witnessed ups and downs in our climate negotiations.  
But four years ago, we sealed the historic Paris Agreement, and last year we were able to adopt 
the Katowice Rulebook. 
These successes were unprecedented. 
As we enter 2020, we need to focus our energies on transformative actions that will help us 
achieve our goals. 
In Paris we all committed to follow a pathway towards net zer o greenhouse gas emissions as well 
as a climate-resilient development. This pathway demands a global energy transition and rapid 
decarbonisation. Measures must be undertaken at all levels, be it local, regional, national or 
global. 
The future belongs to renewable energies and energy efficiency. An ambitious and 
forward ‑looking climate and energy policy must lead to a fundamental transformation of our 
global energy system. 
A holistic and integrative approach is needed, and a focus on solutions across sectors, for instance 
sector coupling in areas such as buildings and transport will be an imp ortant cornerstone. 
Having said that, let me also use this opportunity to underline that for Austria nuclear power is 
definitely not an option to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. Austria does not consider nuclear 
power as compatible with the concept of sustainable develop ment. Therefore our continuous 
appeal is: Do not nuke the climate! 
Climate action is the main priority for the Austrian governm ent. We adopted an ambitious climate 
and energy strategy in 2018 and Austria is a frontrunner with regard to renew able energies. 
Our aim is to cover 100% of our total electricity consumption from renew able energy sources by 
2030. We are already very close to meeting our 2020 target of a 34 % share of renewables in final 
energy consumption. 
The Austrian government is also very active in the area of a daptation to climate change, working 
closely together with Austrian regions and local communities to streng then resilience. 
The extreme weather events a few weeks ago and its damage to infrastructure in the southern 
parts of Austria clearly underline the importance of adaptation measures as a second pillar of 
climate policies. 
Turning back to the necessary transformation of the energy system: The development of new and 
innovative energy technologies, especially in the field of storage, is key. 
In Austria, we want to be a front-runner in innovation and technol ogy and become innovation 
leaders in the field of renewable “green” hydrogen. 
Hydrogen produced through renewable sources have enormous potentia l and provides wide 
application possibilities. It can serve as a truly groundbr eaking energy storage solution as well as 
revolutionize the rapid decarbonization of hard to abate sectors such as energy-intensive 
industries or freight transport. 
In Austria, we already see important industry players maki ng investment decisions in sustainable 
hydrogen. For example, the flagship project "H2Future" was starting to produce hydrogen last 
month in the voestalpine steel plant in Linz. It features the largest electrolysis facility in Europe 
to supply green hydrogen for steel production. 
In Austria we count on other important opportunities as well. For example, there are subsidies in 
place to promote electro-mobility for households and companies. Recently the Austrian 
Parliament adopted a ban of heating systems with liquid fossil fuels in new buildings. 
Succeeding in the fight against climate change will require ambitious efforts of all countries and 
stakeholders. The necessary energy transition will not be an eas y task and will require constant 
global dialogue. 
In this context, I would like to refer to the 7th Vienna Energy Forum, which will take place mid 
of June 2020 in Vienna. This Forum will be another opportunity to discuss and tackle issues facing 
the global energy community including decarbonisation options f or industries or the role of new 
technologies. 
In terms of the negotiations over the next few days, we need to leave Madrid with a robust and 
comprehensive set of rules on voluntary cooperation that foster global ambition, avoid double 
counting and ensure environmental integrity. We want a market me chanism that supports 
ambition, not one that undermines it. 
Austria also recognizes the challenges that increasing climate change risks pose to the most 
vulnerable communities. 
We acknowledge that more needs to be done, in particular to accele rate action on the ground, with 
the ultimate objective of supporting those vulnerable communities and gr oups. 
We are sure that a successfully reviewed Loss and Damage mechanism will continue to provide 
a framework for all Parties, both developed and developing, to participate, contribute and 
cooperate for strengthening the national and global actions to avert, minimize and address loss 
and damage. 
Let us, above all, give the signal to the world that we care about our climate! It is time for action! 
 
Thank you. 