Mr. President, 
Excellences,  
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
First of all, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the 
Government and people of the host country, Arab Republic of Egypt and 
the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, for 
their hospitality and excellent organization. 

Notwithstanding the fact that the Republic of Azerbaijan contributes 
only 0.15 % of the global greenhouse gas emissions, our country has taken 
ambitious taget to reduc e greenhouse gas emissions by 35% by 2030 
compared to 1990 as a contribution to global initiatives to mitigate the 
impact of climate change . Furthermore , the last year in Glasgow we have 
set the new target of 40% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. 
We are making steady efforts towards achievement of th ese targets. 
Our new strategy titled "Azerbaijan – 2030: National Priorities for 
Socio -Economic Development" specifically envisages reduction of 
greenhouse gas emissions. The actions under this strategy are fully aligned 
with international initiatives on climate change and its implementation will 
directly contribute to the fulfillment of our international commitments and 
achievement of our goals. 
At the moment , we are undertaking strong mitigation activities , 
notably increasing the share of renewable energy sources in Azerbaijan's 
total installed electricity capacity from the current 17% to 30% by 2030 , as 
well as energy efficiency measures, transition to low -emission transport 
and introduction of alternative solutions in the urban transport system, 
application of low -carbon clean technologies in the industrial sector, 
improvement of the waste management system, increasing of forests and 
green areas. Our relevant activities will inevitably be intensified in the 
upcoming years. Adverse impacts of climate change causes several consequences in 
our country such as shortage of water resources, increase in drought, 
change in precipitation regime and its overall decrease, falling productivity 
in agriculture, change of coastline of the Caspian Sea level as a result of 
fluctuations , increasing health concerns of population, drawbacks in fighting 
forest fires.  
Apart from these, hot and dry winds have increased up to 14 times in the 
last 30 years in Azerbaijan. Due to the decrease in precipitation, the 
drought lasts longer and become more severe. On the other hand, in some 
regions monthly level of precipitation falls in a short period of time. As a 
result, the number of floods in our country has increased significantly. 
In order to enable preparedness to climatic hazards, the 
establishment of an early warning system has been launched in Azerbaijan. 
Modern radar systems have been put into operation, automated 
hydrometeorological stations, and modern marine stations have been 
installed in the Caspian Sea for the purpose of real -time detection of 
atmospheric phenomena. It is planned to continue these works and fully 
automate the network in order to totally cover the territory of the country 
with the early warning system. 
I would like to emphasize that the liberation of Azerbaijani territories 
from almost three decade s-long Armenia n occupation revealed the full 
extent of terrible destruction and ecocide in th e region committed by 
Armenia . During the occupation, the natural resources of our country were 
looted and unique ecosystems were destroyed. Ongoing m assive pollution 
of our count ry's transboundary rivers by industrial waste waters of Armenia 
hinders the efforts made by Azerbaijan for the sustainable management of 
water resources, which are decreasing every year due to climate change, 
and also poses a great threat to the ecosystem o f the region as a whole. 
Azerbaijan is a downstream country, and we strongly believe that regional 
cooperation with neighboring countries in the field of sustainable 
management of transboundary rivers will contribute to the protection of 
shared water resources and mean time, to achieving 6th Sustainable 
Development Goal. 
Today , we are undertaking the large -scale post-conflict rehabilitation, 
reconstruction and reintegration of the liberated territories. These activities 
are based on the climate -friendly, e nvironmentally clean technologies , 
"smart" and "green" approaches. These approaches sets a strong basis for 
the liberated areas to become " Net Zero Emission" zone by 2050. The 
innovative initiatives and incentives launched in the liberated territories as 
the establishment of "green energy ” zone, "green" agriculture, "green" 
transport, "smart" cities, "smart" villages and the reforestation of thousands 
hectares of land will altogether contribute to the overall mitigation and 
adaptation efforts both regionally and globally and transform these 
territories into one of the ‘green’ regions . 
 
Mr. President , 
 
Azerbaijan remains committed to the mitigation of climate change 
and implementation of adaptation activities. As a strong demonstration of 
our resolve in this process , we supported a set of global and regional 
initiatives launched during COP27. 
It is obvious that no country on this planet is able to act alone to solve 
climate change problem. The only way to achieve positive results in 
reducing the impact on climate change is the cons olidation of efforts of 
each and every country to ensure safe and resilient future. 
In this regard, I would like to emphasize the raising need to increase 
international support such as sharing of best practices, technology transfer, 
technical support, cap acity building and awareness raising activities. 
At the same time, I would like to call on each party to strengthen 
international cooperation, act responsibly on transboundary issues and use 
every opportunity which may lead to development of regional interaction 
among countries. 
Thank you for your attention. 