Good Afternoon, 
My delegation and I wish to express our sincere appreciation to the 
Government of Germany and the Fijian Presidency for hosting and 
organizing this important event , very efficiently . 
 
Mr. President, 
Emission knows no boundary. Ultimately, it accumulates in the 
atmosphere that lead s to increas ed global temperature. Adverse 
impacts of climate change go beyond the boundar ies of the emitters. 
Lives and livelihoods of millions of people continue to be at risk and 
it is increasing day by day. Thus , it is urgent that we take all possible 
steps to control the global warming process. 
 
Paris Agreement provides us a clear path way for achieving a low 
emission and climate resilient world. Entry into force of the Paris 
Agreement by the Parties in a shortest possible time was 
unprecedented. This affirmed our political will to fight against global 
warming and climate change.

 Excellences, Distinguished Delegates , 
Adverse impacts of climate change are being fel t very strongly 
globally including my country. We experienced untimely flood this 
year in April , followed by second flood in July and suffered from late 
monsoon flood in September/October . All these floods had severely 
damaged rice production - the main staple food of our people and 
threatened our food security. Bangladesh had achieved self - 
sufficiency in food through research and hard work. The loss of crops 
has forced Bangladesh move out to purchase rice from global market. 
 
Besides these floods, the country suffered from unusually heavy 
rainf all in the southeastern hill districts causing landslides . Floods and 
landslides had killed hundreds of our people. Due to short -duration 
heavy rainfall, the cities including the Capital Dhaka have suffer ed 
from unusual drainage congestions. In addition, Storm surges and 
cyclones are battering our coastal belts regularly. All these are 
contributing to increased internal displacement and migration , which 
have significant socio -political and economic consequences in a 
densely populated country like Bangladesh. This issue must be 
addressed in the context of Loss and Damage. 

Excellences and Distinguished Delegates, 

The success of the Paris Agreement will largely depend on the ability 
of its members in the implementation of their mitigation and adaption 
plans an d strategies . Moreover, effective implementation of 
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) by the countries is also 
 critical . To this end, particularly vulnerable countries should receive 
special attention and support to meet their conditional NDCs. 
Reemphasizing the need of substantial support for vulnerable 
countries in terms of finance, technology and capacity building, I am 
afraid that the delivery mechanisms for support are not as effective as 
expected . It is important for LDCs and particularly vu lnerable 
countries that the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism 
serving the Convention and the Paris Agreement must put in place 
simplified and streamlined application, approval and disbursement 
procedures . 
Distinguished Delegates , 
We understand that enhanced climate action enables the delivery of 
the full range of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) . The 
effective implementation of NDCs will essentially contribute to 
achieving SDGs by the countries. Hence, integration of NDCs and 
SDGs into national development process is important . 
Although Adapta tion is our priority, nevertheless, we are focusing on 
energy efficiency, energy conservation and renewable energy . We 
have achieved a major success through the installation of over 4.5 
million Solar Home Systems across the country especially in remote 
rural areas . We are working on climate resilient cropping system. We 
have developed stress tolerant varieties of crops. We have introduced 
solar -powered irrigation pumps .
 We are pioneer in preparing Country Investment Plan on 
Environment, Forest and Climate Change , where we identified 
priority areas for investment. This opens up the opportunity for 
partners to invest in priority areas of mutual benefits. 

Excellences and Distinguished Delegates, 
We expected that preparation of the Rule Book for operationalizing 
the Paris Agreement would make significant progress in COP23. 
However, we have seen slow progress. We underscore that political 
leadership should get engaged in serious consultations to provide 
concre te political guidance in moving the negotiation forward and 
finalize the Paris Work Program for adoption by COP 24 in 2018 . 
 
I thank you . 