Your Excellences, ladies and gentlemen! 
 
The Republic of Belarus, along with other countries, is implementing 
international initiatives to combat climate change. 
In September 2021, the Republic of Belarus committed itself to make a new, 
nationally determined contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. By 2030, 
the country will use domestic resource s to redu ce emissions by 35 per cent. Attracting 
additional external funding will increase the ambition of our contribution and lay the 
foundation for the country's further achievement of carbon neutrality in a time frame 
comparable to goals declared by the world's leading industrial countries. 
Despite the fact that Belarus’ share in global greenhouse gas emissions is less 
than 0.2 percent, we are responsible for the commitments we made and are striving to 
join our efforts with other nations. 
No coal is extracted or used in the country. The main share of the energy 
sources in the Republic of Belarus is natural gas. 
In 2022, with the commissioning of the Belarusian nuclear power plant with 
the state investments worth more than 10 billion US dol lars, greenhouse gas 
emissions will be reduced by 8 per cent and gas consumption will begin to decline. 
The share of renewable energy in the total energy balance is already more than 
9 percent. Belarus has practical experience in implementing de -risking pro jects in 
green energy area attracting private investors . 
Along with the development of l ow-carbon energy, the country has been 
rehabilitating drained peatlands. Ecological rehabilitation of 1 hectare prevents 
emission of 11 tonnes of CO2. Currently, there are 1.5 million hectares of drained 
peatlands in Belarus. Therefore, to accelerate the process of their swamping, it is 
necessary to join efforts and raise financing for these projects in the framework of all -
European environmental programmes. 
Belarus has enormous regional carbon absorption potential thanks to our 
forests, which cover 40 per cent of the country’s territory. Forests absorb a third of all 
CO2 emissions. Taking care of forests is not only a state policy but also a long -
established cultural trad ition of the Belarusians. Every year, our residents plant a 
million trees with their own hands. 
We welcome the intentions of the signatories to the COP26 Joint Declaration 
on Forests and Land Use and share the principles laid down therein, designed to halt 
the loss of forests in the world. 
 
Distinguished delegates! 
 
In our world, the environmental well -being and health of every human being 
should become a top priority of modern international policy. And to address these 
challenges, countries must work together to combat climate change by bridging the 
existing political and economic divides. 
 
Thank you for your attention! 