 Mr. President, 
Your Excellency, Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber , 
I am happy to convey greetings on behalf of the Hon. Prime Minister, 
John Antonio Briceno, and the people of Belize. 
I also extend my delegation’s appreciation to your government for the 
warm reception that we have received since arriving in Dubai. 
Since we last convened at COP27, Belize has continued to ramp up its 
mitigation actions: 
In marine conservation, 20.3% of Belize’s ocean is under legal protection. 
In sustainable transportation, Belize has embarked on a national transition 
to e-mobility. This includes the adoption of electric vehicles and the 
development of necessary infrastru cture to support their integration into 
our transportation system. This will result in avoiding 117 K ilo-tons-
Carbon Dioxide per year from the transport sector by 2030. We have also 
initiated the construction of a 60 -megawatt solar power plant with the go al 
of cutting annual emissions by 60,000 tons and contributing substantially 
to our commitment to clean and renewable energy sources. 
Belize continues to do its part - even as it continues to shoulder the burden from 
the impacts of climate change. 
Belize is setting innovative finance trends with the second largest debt for 
conservation swap -the Belize Blue Bond and is actively pursuing high -
integrity market opportunities to maintain the natural carbon sinks of our 
forest and marine resources. As a matter of fact, we have recently tabled 
in parliament the Climate Change and Carbon Markets Initiatives Bill, 
2023 underpinned by the principles and commitments of the Paris 
Agreement. 
Despite these efforts, there remains a financial shortfall of USD 1.6 billion 
for adaptation and mitigation actions to be implemented in Belize. We 
therefore call for the restructuring of global financial institutions with the 
aim of unlocking more grant -based and concessional finance for the most 
vulnerable states - such financing to be predictable, accessible, and 
mobilized with urgency! 
Belize welcomes the positive start of this year’s COP with the 
operationalization of the Loss and damage fund. We expect that pledges, 
 which amount to a mere 0.2% of the global needs are new, increased and 
fulfilled. 
Mr. President, 
2023 manifested concerning climate trends. In May Belize experienced 
firsthand the intensifying effects of this trend, recording 23 consecutive 
scorching days in our capital - exceeded typical averages by 0.8 degrees 
across the country, with the most pronounced being a 2 degrees Celsius  
increase in southern Belize. 
As we tackle the climate crisis, Belize calls upon all Parties to unite in 
support and alignment with the phase out of fossil fuels. Our collective 
commitment to keeping 1.5 alive demands a resolute and complete halt to 
all fossil burning, moving beyond me re reduction and abatement.  
COP 28 can deliver on a framework for the Global Goal on Adaptation 
(GGA) that enhances adaptive capacity, strengthens resilience, and 
reduces vulnerability of SIDS. At COP 28 we can make progress which 
facilitates the consideration of targets and indicators that incorporate the 
special circumstances of SIDS; which, as a matter of law, is indisputable! 5 
 Our countries are on the frontline of the climate emergency and paying 
the steepest cost of the impacts with little support. There is no greater 
travesty of justice than the failure of this process in protecting our 
countries from existential threat. 
Mr. President, 
In your opening remarks you championed that we rise above our 
differences to make the difference for future generations right now. Belize 
echoes your call to bring everyone together and call for the professional, 
pragmatic and constructive participation of the Republic of China 
(Taiwan) in the UNFCCC process. 
Mr. President, 
You can be sure that Belize stands fast and ready to collaborate with you 
in making a difference here at COP 28. 
The science has spoken! there is still time to avoid a calamitous tipping 
point! 
It is time to stop the postering!  
 It is time for transformative action! 
It is time for impactful leadership! 
It is time for climate justice!  
Thank You! 
End 
 