Mr President, 
Honorable Heads of State and Government, 
Honorable Ministers, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
It is an honor to be here, representing Brazil, at this important Conference of the 
Parties in Glasgow. I thank, on behalf of our delegation, for the kind reception and I 
congratulate the COP26 team for the organization. In our case, this effort was mutual , 
because Brazil also received Glasgow. We set up an interactive structure and 
promoted the participation of 10 ministers of state, connected in real time to our 
pavilion here in Glasgow, demonstrating the integrated action of the Brazilian 
government in t he international climate agenda. Thus, it was also possible to present 
cases of a real Brazil in several panels. 
 
This is part of a greater effort, with already clear outcomes . Brazil, as a key player in 
the negotiations, made important moves during the fi rst days and we announced even 
more ambitious climate targets: 50% reduction in emissions by 2030 and climate 
neutrality by 2050; eliminate illegal deforestation by 2028; and support the global 
methane reduction. We proactively gave clear signs that Brazil is part of the solution to 
overcome this global challenge to reduce emissions. 
 
Brazil is gigantic by nature, so our actions reflect the proportions of our territory and 
our people. Our low -carbon agriculture has already restored nearly 28 million hectare s 
of degraded pastures and will increase th is number to 58 million by 2030; we have the 
world's largest biofuels operational program, our renewable energies contribute to 
84% of our electricity matrix, generating a record of 380 thousand jobs in solar and 
wind; we have 16 million hectares of native forests in recovery; and our solid waste 
management program has already reduced the number of dumps ites by 20%. 
 
We particularly highlight the Águas Brasileiras Program, which aims to plant 100 
million trees in the Cerrado, Pantanal and Caatinga biomes. Also, the New Basic 
Sanitation Framework, which gives the opportunity for the private sector to provide 
wastewater treatment to over 100 million people. Also, the incredible transformation 
from the logistical modal to rail roads , with more than 5,000 km of new rails, 
representing a 75% reduction in emissions of GEE in cargo transport and equating the 
Brazilian modal to that of developed countries. Results like these demonstrate the 
strength of the current and real Br azilian environmental policy. 
 
But the Government of Brazil wants more. Less than a month ago, we launched the 
foundations of the National Green Growth Program, to give priority to green 
initiatives, whether public or private, aimed at reducing emissions, forest conservation 
and rational use of natural resources, hence contributing to the generation of green 
jobs. The program already includes resources from federal banks in the order of 50 
billion dollars. 
 
We recognize our challenges and have been working to overcome them. To contain 
illegal deforestation in the Amazon, the Federal Government doubled the resources 
allocated to federal environ mental agencies and is going to hire 739 new 
environmental agents. In addition, the Ministry of Justice collaborates with 700 men in 
the field, working in 23 municipalities in an ostensible and permanent way. The 
Ministry of Defense, through Censipam, rece ntly launched an innovative and even 
more accurate forest monitoring system. 
 
We also recognize that where there is a lot of forest there is also a lot of poverty. And, 
to promote sustainable development in the region, we created the National Program 
for Payments for Environmental Services Floresta+, which seeks to promote the 
market for environmental services, recognizing and providing payments to those who 
take care of the forest. 
 
At this COP and even long before we get here, our Delegation has been work ing to 
achieve positive results in creating a global carbon market under Article 6, 
understanding Brazil's role in building bridges between the different parties and its 
potential as an exporter of carbon credits , contribut ing to a more balanced global 
reduction. 
 
It is important that developed countries recognize the financial emergency and 
mobilize the necessary resources to achieve the desired goals at this conference. The 
$100 billion target was not met and currently this figure is no longer sufficient for the 
world to build a new green economy with a responsible transition. More ambitious 
volumes are needed, with easy access and agile execution, so that the transformation 
takes place in an inclusive way in each territory around the world, mainly in regi ons 
that are more vulnerable in terms of climate and economic development. 
 
The countries that are historically and currently responsible for the largest volumes of 
emissions must demonstrate their effective funding ambitions at this conference, 
without fu rther postponing a commitment made in 2015 and so far, not fully realized. 
 
All parties of this conference must take on their common but differentiated 
responsibilities towards a green economy neutral in emissions . The global challenge to 
be overcome is to revert the negative logic of punishment, sanction and prohibition to 
the positive logic of incentive, innovation and prioritization. It is necessary to 
transform the environmental agenda into an opportunity to generate green jobs. 
Based on a constructive vision, we will find the way to create the sustainable future we 
all want. 
 
The Green Future has already started in Brazil . 
 
Thank you very much. 
 