Mr. President,
The current global pandemic has much to teach us about an even more existential threat
– the climate crisis.
Brunei Darussalam is a small country. 72 percent of our area is still forested, currently
absorbing 97 percent of our domestic greenhouse gas emissions.
Two years ago, we celebrated a milestone - 90 years of our oil and gas industry. But
really, for us, it was a celebration of 90 years as a carbon-negative oil and gas producing
and exporting country. We have held this title long enough to continue to call nature as
our number one ally. Not just for climate mitigation, but equally important, for climate
adaptation.
As a small country located along the coast, our exposure to climate change is very high.
We hear the science. We understand the devastating impacts. We know that majority of
our key strategic areas across the country, could be under water as early as 2050. This
has urged us to look beyond our current efforts, in keeping the 1.5 degrees target alive.
Last year we launched our National Climate Change Policy, outlining ten key strategies
that would shape our low carbon and climate-resilient future. We have also
communicated our NDC at the end of last year, with a commitment to reduce 20 percent
of our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
In further enhancing our climate ambition, Brunei Darussalam is moving towards net zero
by 2050, that will be driven mainly through energy transition and forests preservation. It
will not be an easy task ahead for us, but it is necessary.

We have done this for almost a decade, and we will continue to maintain it, and this time
around, we would be unlocking huge opportunities for green growth and green jobs. Our
country only contributes to about 0.025 percent of the global greenhouse emissions, but
we believe with our small actions, will make a huge positive difference.
Progress, however, require action from many others.
As ASEAN Chair this year, Brunei Darussalam is honoured to present the ASEAN Joint
Statement to COP 26. ASEAN has reaffirmed the region’s collective commitment on
climate action, both to the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement.
ASEAN calls upon developed country parties to strengthen support and cooperation to
accelerate climate action in the region. Under the theme “We Care, We Prepare, We
Prosper” , ASEAN this year saw, among others:-
Firstly: Communication of enhanced NDCs;
Secondly: Support in principle the establishment of an ASEAN Center for Climate Change
in Brunei Darussalam;
Thirdly: The creation of the ASEAN Youth on Climate Action platform programme;
Fourthly: The development of the ASEAN Taxonomy for Sustainable Finance.
This includes the launching of the ASEAN Green Initiative, renewed regional renewable
energy, and energy efficiency and conservation targets in accelerating climate action.
Lastly, I wish to thank the UK for the hospitality and arrangements for this COP26. Let’s
act now, and let’s act now, together. Thank you.
