
1. Good afternoon. On behalf of the President of the 
Republic of Ghana, H.E. John Dramani Mahama, the 
Government and the People of Ghana, I am pleased to 
address this high-level segment of the 19th session of 
the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and the 
9th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol. 
 
2. Mr. President, Ghana wishes to thank the government and people of Poland for hosting the COP and the warm 
hospitality given us. We wish to also join the international community to extend our condolences to 
the government and people of Phi lippines in this trying 
moments. 
 
3. Mr. President, this COP is an important step towards 
securing the f uture of generations yet to come. This duty 
is not only a moral one, but also a privilege duty we owe 
to the future generation and cannot afford to fail by not acting decisively today, here and now ! 

 4. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ghanaian delegation 
reaffirms its position that the UNFCCC platform is 
capable of attaining “ambitious, balanced, legally 
binding m ultilateral agreement” by 2015 that will truly 
reflect the uni que circumstances of countries and their 
respective capabilities.  
 
5. In this respect, not only does Ghana shares the 
positions of t he African Group and G -77+China. W e also 
associate ourselves with the fundamental principles of 
the UNFCCC in advancing the building block s of the 
2015 agreement without leaving out the importance of 
the “means of im plementation” such as finance, 
technology transfer and capacity building. 
 
6. Mr. President we wish bring to the attention of the COP 
the need to reflect on the experiences and lessons we 
have gained through the implementation of some of the 
mechanism s under protocol and convention such as the 
CDM, adaptation fund and the fast -start financing to 
inform the negotiations.  
 
7. On REDD Plus, an outcome that is fair and beneficial to Ghana 
and our colleagues in Africa is one that balances 
methodological requirement s with the means to 
implement them; and for that reason, suitable governance arrangement 
to coordinate international 
finance is the key that would unlock progress in result -
based REDD plus actions. 

 8. Mr. President, we call for equal treatments of the real 
issues which threaten the foundation of our economies 
and the social wellbeing of our people. Issues such as 
adaptation, loss and damage and above all , gender are 
at the very core of what we call for concrete actions in 
this COP.  
 
9. Ladies and gentlemen, n on-annex one parties are 
already taking steps to address the negative impacts of 
climate change. Because of the indispensa ble risk and 
opportunities climate change poses to realizing the long-term 
development objectives of our country and we are 
tackling it head -on. 
 
10. Mr. President , Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to 
share some major highlights of our efforts with you: 
 
• Ghana has responded to the UN declaration for 
“Sustainable Energy for All by 2030” by preparing a 
national action plan on sustainable energ y for 2030.  
 
• Cabinet has approved Ghana’s N ational Climate 
Change Policy which serves as our flagship for 
addressing climate change in Ghana.  
 
• In addition, Ghana has developed a national climate 
change adaptation strategy and modalities have been 
developed to ensure effective implementation of the 
strategy. 

 • As a continued effort to meet its obligation under the 
convention, Ghana is preparing its Third National 
Communication to the UNFCCC. I am also happy to report that
 Ghana has recently received offici al 
approval from the Global Environment Facility to commence its 
“initial biennial update report ”.  
 
• Ghana has enacted its Renewable Energy Act (Act 832) and 
its associated Feed-in -tariff scheme and 
Renewable Energy Fund.  
 
11. Mr. President these are some of the policies and 
measures we are implementing at the national level to 
build resilience and equitable low carbon economy . 
We hope with additional support we can do more.  
 
12. Mr. President , ladies and gentlemen, let me 
conclude by urging us all to be mindf ul of the key 
elements in our deliberations here on this multilateral 
platform. We need: 
 
• To be forward- looking and result -oriented 
 
• Leadership and drive to achieve balance.  
 
• To explore common grounds and above- all 
 
• “Seek to build mutual trust” 
 

 I wish all fruitful discussions God bless us all. 
 
 
 
Thank you 