At this point, I wish to convey sincere condolences from the Government and people of 
The Gambia to the Government and people of Philippines for the devastating super 
Typhoon Haiyan. 
 
Mr. President 
Honourable Ministers, 
 
Let me start this statement by saying ‘if Doha was a gateway to 2015, Warsaw is one of 
the first fundamental milestones. Also Warsaw marks the halfway to Paris. 
The science is settled and the problem of climate change identified. Recent studies 
indica te that the projected greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere over the 
21stcentury will have detrimental and disruptive effects on human and economic 
activities around the world. 
 
This year’s UNEP gap report shows that there has been no decline in emiss ions and the 
gap remains at 8 -12 billion tonnes of annual carbon -dioxide equivalent emissions 
(GtCO2e/yr). This means it is likely to lead to a warming of 3 -40C by 2100 base on the 
current insufficient pledges of parties by 2020. 
 
Africa is anticipated t o be the most negatively affected continent on the planet due to a 
combination of severe projected impacts and relatively low adaptive capacity. 
 
Mr. President, 
The Durban decision to “launch a process to develop a protocol, another legal 
instrument or an agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention decision 
applicable to all Parties ”, represent a long overdue acknowledgement that the 
Convention, and the Kyoto Protocol are insufficient to achieve the ultimate objective of 
the Convention. 
 
The ratifi cation of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, 
operationalization of the outcomes of the Bali Action Plan as well as a strong political 
indication of the Durban Platforms should provide the necessary impetus leading into 
focus discussion in 2014 in preparation for the 2015 Agreement in Paris.  
This requires bold and urgent steps from all Parties with the developed countries taking 
the lead. 
 
Mr. President 
Honourable Ministers 
 
Based on results from national, regional and global assessm ents, The Gambia 
contributed about 0.01% to the Greenhouse Gas emissions and concentration in the 
atmosphere. However, the impacts of global warming and climate change on the 
country are not commensurate to our contribution to the problem. 
 
With the projec ted warming and drying of The Gambia under climate change, food 
insecurity is exacerbated, ecosystems and their services will be seriously eroded, 
climate change induced sea level rise will inundate the Capital City of Banjul and other 
coastal settlements and the infrastructure and health impacts thereof will be enormous. 
 
Mr. President 
Based on our Second National Communication, mean annual temperature is projected to 
increase while relative humidity and rainfall are projected to decrease by the end of the 
century. Food insecurity is projected to exacerbate and ecosystems and their services 
will be eroded. What is more alarming is that with a sea -level rise of 1m, about 92 km2 
of the coastal zone will be under water, including the capital city of Banjul. Th is is also 
confirmed by the most recent published UNEP Adaptation Gap Report 
 
Mr. President  
We will not wait for climate change to destroy us. Since our ratification of the 
Convention, The Gambia has taken very important steps at the national, regional an d 
global levels to face the challenges of climate change. Studies have been conducted and 
strategic documents produced and disseminated. These include two National 
Communications, the NAPA, the National NAMA and a Sectoral NAMA on Agriculture; 
the developm ent of both NAMAs was supported by the African Development Bank. 
 
In 2011, we started implementing projects from our NAPA covering the development of 
an Early Warning System and Coastal Zone Project. But Mr. President, the LDCF POT is 
drying and some count ries including The Gambia are waiting for replenishment to 
continue implementation of other NAPA Projects. 
 
In this respect, we would like to thank the Government of the United Kingdom for 
pledging 50 Million Pounds Sterling to the LDCF yesterday and urge other parties in a 
position to do to follow suit. 
 
 
Mr. President 
 
Colleagues, Honournable Ministers 
We in The Gambia have realized that since 1992, our implementation of the Convention 
has been Ad -hoc and this has proved to be fragmented and does not pro mote 
sustainability of efforts. Thus, in 2011 we initiated the process of mainstreaming 
climate change into our development frameworks. With financial support from the 
Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN), we have integrated climate 
change into the Programme for Accelerated Growth and Employment (PAGE), the successor 
to the Gambia’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper II. The PAGE is the four -
year (2012 to 2015) blue print for the implementation of the Gambia Vision 2020. 
 
The Climate Change Prior ity Action Plan (CC -PAP) of the PAGE is costed at about US$47 
Million and includes activities to enable mainstreaming of climate change into the 
national development process through the development of Low Carbon Strategy, 
integration of climate change into national and sectoral policies and programmes, 
integration of climate change into education curricular from basic to higher education 
and to try and address the climate data needs of the country. 
 
As part of the implementation of the PAGE and with support from the European Union, 
we have embarked on the development of a National Climate Policy. UNDP is also 
supporting us initiate the process of developing a low carbon climate resilient 
developing strategy and integrating climate change adaptation into ongo ing disaster 
risk reduction policy review and overall planning process. 
The African Climate Policy Centre of the Economic Commission for Africa is supporting 
the modernization of meteorological and hydrological services and rescuing data. 
 
Mr. President 
We are thus ready and have actually initiated our National Adaptation Plan process, 
having been included in the UNDP -UNEP Global Support Programme. 
 
Mr. President  
The Gambia is doing all it can to contribute towards the global efforts in reducing its 
green house gas emission and building the resilience of the communities in accordance 
with its sustainable development and poverty eradication strategies. 
 
We therefore call on developed countries to take the lead in providing the means of 
implementation to ena ble developing countries particularly the least developed 
countries address the adverse impacts of climate change. 
 
We came here expecting Warsaw to be a finance COP and we would be disappointed if 
Warsaw comes out without a concrete decision on finance, p articularly with a pathway 
and numbers on how to close the financing gap between 2013 and 2020. 
 
 
Finally, and through you Mr. President, the Delegation of the Gambia sincerely 
appreciates the warm welcome and generous hospitality accorded to it by the 
Government and the people of Poland. 
 
Honourable Ministers and distinguish Delegates, Thank you very much for your 
attention. 