
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Mauritius , I would 
like to express our sincere thanks to the Government of the 
Republic of Poland for its warm hospitality and the excellent 
arrangements for the organization of this high level meeting on 
Climate Change in the wonderful city of Warsaw . 
 
At the very outset , I would like to express the full support of 
Mauritius to the statements made earlier on behalf of the AOSIS, 
the Africa group and the Group of 77 and China . 
 
Mr. President , 
 
We are concerned with the slow progress. This CO P is very 
decisive in terms of charting a clear pathway for achieving the 2015 
legally binding outcome. This COP has to be a COP of raised 
ambitions in terms o f mitigation as well as up scaling of means of 
implementation . We need urgent measures and action s to halt the 
rapid increase in greenhouse emissions and the pace of global 
warming. We trust that under your abled leadership, this 
Conference of Parties in Warsaw will deliver a positive and 
constructive outcome.  
I will now focus my intervention on three issues: 
 
First , the urgency to address climate change need s not be re-
emphasized . Latest scientific reports are another blatant reminder 
that human activities continue to have a profound impact on SIDS, 
LDCs and Africa now and for many generations to c ome. 
 
Mauritius, as a highly vulnerable SIDS is already facing the 
devastating effects of extreme weather events . The recent extreme 
flash flood event which occurred in March this year in Mauritius 
caused 11 deaths with over USD 25 million material damages . 
We can no t stop reiterating that t he climat e challenges ahead for 
Mauritius are huge , especially when considering the facts that water 
supply by 2030 may not be sufficient to satisfy projected demand, 
agricultural production may decline by as much as 30 % and that 
several beaches, that are so important for our touris m industry may 
slowly disappear , thus severely undermining one of our major 
economic pillars depriving the economy value worth over USD 50 
million by 2050.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
Our livelihoods and survival are at stake. It would be insensitive and 
irresponsable to further delay the long overdue response s. 
Constructive e fforts are required by all parties to achiev e the overall 
objective of limiting global warming to well below 1.5 degrees 
Celsiu s. 
 
Second is Mitigation . Mr. President , the latest UNEP Gap 
Emission Report is clear . If we are to save the world from the 
impending climate crisis , the commitments by developed countries 
party must be scaled up to deliver emission reductions consistent 
with science and historical responsibility . This is a must and not an 
option. A real demonstration of leadership from developed countries 
and solidarity with the most vulnerable states are more than ever 
required at this critical juncture. 
 
Mr. President , 
In response to this challenge, the Government of Mauritius has 
made sustainable development as its long term strategy . Several 
activities ai ming at greening of our economy have been undertaken 
with our limited means under the P rime Minister’s “Maurice Ile 
Durable ” initiative known as “ (MID)” . Mauritius has set the target of 
achieving 35 % of renewable energy pr oduction by the year 2025 . 
Necessary legislation has recently been passed on energy 
efficiency and on climate resilient and energy efficient buildin gs. We 
will be shortly be having a Climate Change Bill for Mauritius. 
Additionally, a series of other mitigation projects are also being 
undertaken. The Ministry of Environment and Sustainable 
Development is working on a Low Carbon Development Strategy 
and Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) with a view 
to mainstream climate change mitigation in the institutional 
framework and into core development plans, policy, and strategies 
for Mauritius. 
 
Third , is the need for adequate and predictable finance to meet 
the cost of adapt ation and mitigation . In this context , sustainable 
and adequate capitalization of the Green Climate Fund is a must . 
Mr. President , the cost for adapting to impacts of climate change is 
escalating rapidly . 
 The Government of Mauritius has approved its National Climate 
Change Adaptation Policy Framework, which is the first report for 
the Republic of Mauritius. 12 technologies have been prioritized 
following a thorough consultative process and assessment from an 
initial list of 128 technologies for enhanced climate change 
mitigation in the Energy sector and adaptation in the Agriculture, 
Water and Coastal Zone sectors. 
 
We have set up a Climate Change Information Centre to 
disseminate information on climate change and serve as a digital 
platform to enhance the skills and knowledge of all stakeholders. 
 
I would like to seize this opportunity to thank all our partners such 
as the EU, Government of Japan and others who have made it 
possible for us to come this far . However, we need to pursue this 
goal further. We still have a very long way to go to make Mauritius 
climate resilient. We have come up with a climate investment 
programme as well as a Disaster Risk Reduction and Management 
Action Plan in the context of our “Maurice Ile Du rable’ initiative 
amounting to some USD 300 million in the coming 10 years. Mr. 
President , Mauritius needs the technical and financial support of 
the international communit y and development partners to pursue 
our adaptation and mitigation programme. 
 
Mr P resident, Sir, 
As a developing Country, We cannot remain insensible and indifferent to 
the Victims of Cyclone HAIYAN, which has once more shown our 
vulnerability to climatic disasters.  
 Mauritius presents its sincere sympathy and c ondolences to the families 
mourning their dear ones and pray God that The Phillipines recovers 
quickly. 
 
Mr President, Sir, 
I will hopefully wake up Tomorrow and learn that ALL COMMITMENTS 
and OBLIGATIONS  made by delegates attending this COP Meeting have 
been HONOURED and that ev erybody going back will take the good 
news …. A MESSAGE OF NEW HOPES FOR THE KYOTO PROTOCOLE and a 
NEW MINDSET for the place …..you all call EARTH and we call HOME. 
 
Mauritius, therefore makes a sincere plea to all those BOLD and 
COURAGEOUS leaders to make the difference TO DAY for a better 
legacy. 
I am sure, Our Children and those yet to come will read the 2013 COP 
meeting proceedings in Golden Letters and Time will treasure and 
Cherish TO DAY as a landmark and turning point in the HISTORY of 
Climate Cha nge. 
 Remember, Martin Luther King, Mahatma Gandhi, Mao Tse Toum 
and Now Nelson Mandela, They all made a bold Step. 
 Remember, in this very country, in the last century, people graved 
their today for OUR To–morrow. 
 Let us therefore mark our gratitude and re ciprocate this courtesy 
by saying YES to o ur MORAL obligations and Duties . 
 Let us make this Historical Step which will be a step for climate 
resilience and a giant step for HUMANITY.  
Mr President, Sir, 
I move, with your Kind Permission, for a standing OVAT ION to be given 
IN ADVANCE for those bold and courageous leaders who will rise above 
their needs to serve the cause in conviction and translate the theme I 
CARE into practice. For those People who can make the difference. 
To conclude, Chair, 
Mauritius reiterates its wish to work with all parties 
“Alone we are INVISIBLE… Together we are INVINCIBLE” 
Seule nous sommes que l’ arbre 
Ensemble nous la Foret, havre de paix at d’ amour 
Thank you for your Kind Attention. 
 