
Excellencies
Ladies and Gentlemen’s

First of all I would like to join those who preceded me in
congratulating Your Excellency for your appointment as President
of COP19 and CMP 9. We are confident that under your wise
leadership we can achieve positive results in this Conference,
particularly in establishing the foundations for the instrument to
be adopted in 2015.

I would like to express my gratitude to the Government of Poland
and to the citizens of Warsaw for the warm hospitality accorded
to me and my delegation. I would also like to show my
appreciation to the Secretariat of the Convention for their work in
creating such a positive working environment for all of us at the
Conference.

I take this opportunity to express my sincere condolences to the
people and Government of the Philippines for the loss of human
life and massive destruction that resulted from the Haiyan
Typhoon.

Ladies and Gentlemen’s

Excellencies,

This is the nineteenth time that we are meeting under the
Convention and ninth time under Protocol, trying to reach an
agreement on what we have to do to keep this world with a changing
climate livable for present and future generations. 

Despite all the scientific information available to assist us in the
adoption of adequate measures, which may give some
encouragement to those who have followed year after year these
negotiations with great patience, we are not making significant
progress.

We are all too aware of the consequences of the lack of progress
in the negotiations and have witnessed, many of us first-hand, the
impact of inaction. It is increasingly translating in catastrophic
consequences like what we have just seen in the Philippines.

Much like the Philippines, Mozambique has annually had to pay a
heavy bill for the lack of progress in these negotiations. Earlier
this year, the combined toll of floods and cyclones alone resulted
in one hundred seventeen (117) dead, four hundred eighty
thousand (480,000) displaced, and massive _ infrastructure
destruction which is estimated will cost five hundred and
seventeen (517) million dollars to replace. The level of loss and
damage is similar to that which resulted from the massive floods
of 2000.

The severe floods this year have occurred just a few months after
the Government approved the National Strategy for Climate
Change Adaptation and Mitigation, and as its implementation
began. The Mozambique Climate Change Strategy now sets the
guidelines for action to build resilience and reduce climate risk in
communities and in the national economy, while promoting low
carbon development and green economy through their integration
in the country’s national, sectoral and local planning processes.

At present, a number of efforts are underway nationwide to
implement the Strategy and to consolidate its implementation
mechanisms. These include the new institutional arrangements for
climate change, covering also climate finance and the development
of a framework for monitoring and evaluation of the country's climate
change reponse. As a part of the strategy's action plan we are now
taking on a new challenge - the
formulation of local adaptation plans, where communities’
vulnerability and adaptive capacity are assessed to help identify
adaptation and opportunities for low carbon development
measures which will then be integrated in local planning and
budgeting processes.

We welcome the progress made in this COP 19 regarding the
formulation of NAPs as it will contribute to the process which
Mozambique has already initiated. However, We expect that the
mechanisms for the implementation of NAPs are established, so
that we can ensure that countries will not only have the ability to
plan their response, but to implement as well.

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen’s

I would like to end by saying that I very much hope that this
Conference will result in the establishment of:

- Steps and milestones that will allow us to comply with the
deadline agreed in Durban for the adoption of the new legal
instrument, protocol or agreement in 2015 and to set more
ambitious targets for emissions reduction in pre-2020

- Adequate and predictable funds for the implementation of
the NAPA and the National Strategy, as well as for the
formulation and implementation of the NAP and REDD+
Strategies a, including means of implementation. 

- Response mechanism for losses and damages resulting
from extreme events in developing countries that are 
particularly vulnerable to climate change, including and 
supporting theor operationalization. 
I CARE
Thank you!

