Mr. Chairman, His Excellencies- the Head of States and Govern ments; Honorable 
Ministers; Distinguished Dele gates, Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
We all are gathered here in this historic city of Warsaw in the aftermath of the 
Super Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. On behalf of His Excellency the 
President Hamid Karzai and people of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and 
myself, I took this opportunity to offer our deepest condolences and solidarity to 
the people of the Philippines. The devastation caused by the typhoon is heart-
breaking, but the strong and inspirational resp onse of the people of the Philippines, 
and particularly their delegation here in Warsaw , has inspired us all. 
 
Mr. Chairman, 

Scientists are linking this devastating typhoon to climate change. The burning of 
fossil fuels warmed the ocean waters to increase the energy of the typhoon, 
building a weapon of mass destruction.  

The World Meteorological Organization’s recent report states that the 
concentration of carbon dioxide in the at mosphere reached a record high in 2012 
and continuing the upward and accelerating trend. The IPCC’s latest finding 
reaffirms that the human-generated climate change is real. In these circumstances, 
it is critical that we act. It is my wish that COP 19 be remembered for many years 
and generations for the agreements that reversed the trend of the green house 
gases. 
 
Mr. Chairman, 

Afghanistan is a country that has survived storms of a different kind, with 
tremendous loss of life. Afghanistan has endured decades of conflict. We continue 
to face many security challenges as well as social and development challenges. 
More than one-third of the population li ves in extreme poverty. Millions of Afghan 
children are still unable to at tend school. Millions of Afghan lack electricity and 
clean drinking water, and millions more are living with very poor sanitary 
facilities. Besides historic and ongoing conflict, many social and environmental 
constraints such as lack of infrastructure, access to markets, social inequalities, and 
various productivity constraints are among the factors contributing to poverty in 
Afghanistan. Despite these challenges, Afghanistan is moving ahead with double 
digit economic growth since 2001, and now we are experi encing that the impacts 
of climate change in this land-locked, mountainous, and least developed country, is 
beginning to confront the impacts of climat e change as biggest hurdle in achieving 
our socio-economic objectives. 

Afghanistan is a country facing multiple challenges. We are a post-conflict nation 
with significant economic, political and social challenges. We are a least developed 
country. We have decades of experience of loss due to security threats.  

It is difficult to comprehend how some of these major powers can be so much less 
committed to addressing the more serious, global and pervasive security threat 
posed by climate change. Real global security is impossible if whole nations are 
destabilized by increasingly severe extrem e weather events. The future forecasts, 
if we fail to avoid the th reat of a world with more than 2 degrees global average 
temperature increases, are of an unliveable world. We must keep a pathway open 
to avoiding any global average temperature increase in excess of 1.5 degrees. We 
do not accept that political failure is an option. But at the pace of our current 
negotiations, with the very disappointin g failure of the G-8 to meet previous 
commitments, Afghanistan wishes to expres s deep concern that we are unlikely to 
avoid 2 degrees. 

Mr. Chairman, 

This year Afghanistan submitted its Initial National Communic ation and also we 
began to implement the prioritized actions of our National Adaptation Plan of 
Action (NAPA). The Government of Afghanistan is has made the development of 
hydropower and other renewable sources of energy its highest priority. We are 
moving ahead with a national strategy to move ahead with low carbon energy path. 
Some demonstration projects on harnessing the high potential of renewable energy, 
more efficient use of water through in tegrated water management practices, 
community based natural resources mana gement and livelihood of communities, 
introduction of draught resistance crops, and similar small scale activities that 
could demonstrate the sustainable future path are being prioritized by the 
Government of Afghanistan. We are now working towards having the National 
Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan for mainstreaming climate change 
adaptation and mitigation into our sectoral development prioritizes. We are fully 
committed to contribute to the objectives of UNFCCC and on behalf of Islamic 
Republic of Afghanistan w ould like to reiterate our commitment here today. 

Mr. Chairman,

The biggest challenge we are facing toda y is lack of resources to finance the 
infrastructures that we need to build and upgrade that helps to reduce the emissions 
of green house gases and also make us cap able to adapt to the impacts of climate 
change. Afghanistan, as a least devel oped country, was encouraged by the 
commitment made by developed countries in Copenhagen to scale up climate 
financing to $100 billion annually by 2020, but it is disappointing to know that the 
current flows are nowhere towards this. We sincerely hope COP 19 will ensure the 
Green Climate Fund actually has funds. It is not credible that there will but 
nothing in the bank until 2020 , when suddenly $100 billion every year will appear. 
A pledge of this kind requires milestones on the way, as resources are scaled up. 

Underlying much of our discussion has been the issue of equity. Afghanistan has 
proposed that the parties develop an Eq uity Reference Framework to allow an 
assessment of fair sharing of the challe nges and benefits of action. We need a 
neutral mechanism to determine the reasonable fair share of the huge global effort 
of each party, both to minimize the risk of dangerous climate change and enable 
adaptation to the global warming which has already been caused primarily by the 
Annex 1 countries. 

Mr. Chairman 

 would like to repeat again that we realize the damage and loss of the devastating 
Typhoon Haivan and many more such human induced disasters we are 
experiencing for many years now, and hope COP 19 will succeed to take steps to 
enable developing countries to protect vul nerable populations from climate related 
loss and damage. We support calls for the ne xt global agreement to come into force by 2017. 
2020 may be too late. And I am equally hopeful that we make visible 
progress towards reaching agreement in 2015 to place all of us in a path to ensure 
we keep the global average temperat ure increase to below two degrees. 
 
Thank you 
 