Mister President, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
the year 2013 is an important trans ition point. In fact, a new track of 
negotiations on the future regime is started 
 
Unfortunately this year has also pr ovided a clear demonstration of how 
dangerous and challenging climat e change is both for developed and 
developing countries alike. My heart goes to the victims of the recent 
disasters in the US, the Philippine s and on the wonderful island of 
Sardinia, just to mention the most recent examples. We need to act now. 
We can't postpone our decisions any longer. As the IPCC evidence proves 
climate change is mainly a consequence of human activities. 
 
Recent events have largely confirmed that mitigation action post-2020 
alone WILL NOT be sufficient to man age climate change risks. Substantial 
efforts PRIOR to 2020 are essential to achieve the objective of the 
Convention in a cost-effect ive manner. Otherwise it will be like, quoting 
an Italian saying, - to shut the stable door after the cows escaped. 
 
Nevertheless, a LONG TERM perspecti ve is also needed. We need to 
prepare in order to REAC H an agreement in Paris in 2015 which allows 
all Parties to commit and take concrete action. To achieve this the 2015 
agreement needs to give ri ght incentives to all Parties to step in and act. 
 Still, global participation is not enough. We have to ensure that our starting 
point in Paris is adequate and that the agreement contains a sufficient level 
of ambition and transparency, which means that all commitments need to 
be quantifiable. We need to pass from general statements to commitments 
that are measurable and comparable trough specific indicators, thus 
allowing to assess them and keep track of progress. 
 
Italy is enhancing its strategy to put its economy on a lo w carbon pathway. 
Renewable energy sources and energy efficiency policies and measures, 
not to mention incentives, are key to reach this goal, as well as standards 
and best practices, that can help to ac hieve objectives in a coordinated and 
cost-efficient manner.  
 
Mitigation is not the only issue on our political a genda also adaptation has 
a prominent role. I believe that there is a pressing need to mainstream 
adaptation into t he development policies, at all levels. 
 
Italy has just presented its adaptation strategy to enhance climate resilience 
and reduce climate risk in our country and is open to comments and 
suggestion from experts and civil so ciety. The strategy includes also 
financial resources needed to implement urgent actions estimated at about 
2,5 billions of euro per year for the next 15 years, both from public and 
private sectors. 
In the framework of the Climate Convention and Kyoto Protocol Italy 
promoted and implemented in the last 15 years joint projects with the 
developing countries, both in mitigation and adaptation. We are working
 in more than 40 countries, in Africa, Asia, Latin America 
and in the small Pacific Islands. 
Italy is committed to continue to promote internatio nal environmental 
cooperation. 
 A clear, stable international framework is needed to a void fragmentation 
of action. For this reason here in Warsaw we need to agree on a clear 
pathway towards a fair, ambitious and binding deal. 
Until now there have been many discussions on how to get to such a deal. 
It is time to capture the essential elements of the deb ate in a work plan that 
keeps us on track to agree a new Prot ocol by 2015 and to concentrate in 
2014 and 2015 on substantive discu ssion to this. Each Party has the 
responsibility to not only express its position, but all over make an effort 
to converge to a common denominator. 
 
In a challenging economic scenario like the present one, the certainties of a 
long-term binding Protocol applicable to a ll and able to reflect the 
evolving reality, can provide us with the tools needed to strengthen and 
extend cooperation on emissions re duction and a rapid world-wide 
transition towards a green economy. 
 
The world faces many challenges, but building a competitive economy 
while tackling climate change is one of the most pressing challenges. 
Some would argue that you can't do both at the same time - that one must 
take priority over the other. I fi rmly disagree. Economic growth and 
sustainability are not mutually exclus ive. I believe that we must cut 
harmful emissions cost-efficiently and cost-effectively decarbonize our economies.
 This should be seen as a part of th e solution, as well as a moral 
imperative. 
 
We are ready to do our part and we are confident th at here in Warsaw we 
can take another step forward in our common effort to face global climate 
change. 
 
 