
Mr / Madame President, Ministers, Distinguished guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,
I feel particularly honoured to participate at this 19th Conference of the Parties to the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in this beautiful and
historical city of Warsaw: a city that has stood strong despite the various challenges
it has faced throughout the centuries. I would like to start by thanking the
Government and the people of Poland for the impeccable organisation and the
formidable hospitality shown to our delegation at this Conference.
Mr / Mme President,
The latest findings of Working Group I of the IPCC, as well as the recent tragedy
which struck the Philippines, highlight, more than ever, the urgent need for solidarity
within the international community to address this global challenge. The principle of
Solidarity must manifest itself through our work at this Conference. We must send a
clear signal that the international community means business: that we are on track to
take the necessary measures to tackle climate change. [I take this opportunity to
express the sincere condolences on behalf of the people of the Republic of Malta to
the people of the Philippines.]
Mr / Mme President,
This year marks the 25th anniversary since Malta’s initiative for a UN General
Assembly resolution on the conservation of climate as part of the common concern
of mankind. We must commit ourselves to achieve by 2015, a global legally binding
agreement, applicable to all, securing good governance for this unprecedented
threat facing humankind. There is no more time for procrastination.
2
Momentum for action is often stalled by immediate concerns related to national or
regional events. In actual fact however, it is becoming increasingly clear that, as
Commissioner Hedegaard stated on Tuesday, the threats posed by climate change
have now moved to the centre of the debate on economic policy.
Human tragedies, such as those related to migration in the Mediterranean this year,
will continue to escalate as the impacts of climate change act as a threat multiplier,
particularly in the most vulnerable regions. Climate vulnerability spreads beyond
latitudes and therefore the global community must provide the necessary actions to
ensure climate resilience.
These events motivate us further to work towards achieving an effective global
legally binding agreement.
To get there we need an outcome at this Warsaw Conference which sets us on the
right track towards the 2015 Agreement. We must establish a process for all Parties
to formulate ambitious mitigation commitments, including a timetable to prepare their
proposed commitments in 2014.
We must leave Warsaw with the elements for a draft negotiating text, to be available
for the Lima Conference. I therefore emphasise the great importance of ensuring
progress under the ADP here and in the coming months.
Mr / Mme President
The 2015 agreement must ensure the participation of all Parties under the
Convention and also include commitments from all. The collective level of ambition
should be informed by science and consistent with the below 2°C objective.
Responsibilities and capabilities are differentiated but evolve over time. The
agreement should therefore reflect these evolving realities by including a spectrum of
commitments in a dynamic way.
Mr / Mme President
As a small island state in the Mediterranean, a Member State of the European
Union, and an Annex I Party to the Convention, Malta reiterates its commitment to
3
sustainable development. Malta recognises that the key for climate action is better
governance: synergies are created by linking different sectors and actors.
Malta is proud to state that, together with the EU and its Member States, we are
already implementing our commitments under the second commitment period to the
Kyoto Protocol as of 1 January 2013.
Following the adoption of its national mitigation and adaptation strategies, Malta is
fully committed to shifting to cleaner sources of energy. Malta is also currently
preparing a national Green Economy Strategy with a view to creating an enabling
environment that promotes the transition towards a more resource efficient and low
carbon economy. These efforts have been inspired by the value of mainstreaming
climate change policy and action in all sectors of economic and social policy.
As we share our national experiences, whatever the scale, we are committed to
continuing to build global and regional capacity for climate action.
Mr / Mme President,
The Warsaw Conference is an opportunity we cannot afford to miss. We must all
apply our best efforts to achieve a positive outcome. This will help us, here and now,
to determine the future we make for ourselves and for generations to come.