I should at the outset, Mr. President, express my profound
condolences to the Government and people of the Republic of
France for the loss of its loved ones. We are still shocked and deeply
saddened by the senseless attack perpetrated against innocent
Citizens of the Republic of France. Somalia has gone through these
kinds of attacks. We must resolutely stand firm against terrorism. We
stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of France.

Notwithstanding the fact that Somalia is now striving hard to recover
from the effects of a prolonged crisis; however, the destruction that
we have succumbed to as a result of this crisis, will not by any means
deter us from becoming part of a global low-carbon future.

And as the country is now undergoing reconstruction following a
protracted crisis, the opportunity for mainstreaming climate change
into jts national development strategies from the very start, is being
seized. We will embrace the climate-smart agriculture as the way
forward — combining an increase in production while adapting to
climate change and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions

Countries that have developed rapidly and have become the
world's largest economies have also caused extensive damage to
their quality of air, water, and soil. Somalia will ensure that this does
not happen to its environment as it is being reconstructed. It will
harness its alternative energies and make its rebuilding plans energy
efficient, which can greatly reduce oF avoid greenhouse gas
emissions.

As we are now revising our national environmental strategies, we will 
call for the strengthening of politicall will and leadership to ensure
that the green growth vision is integrated in all sectors of the society,
from the central government to regional entities, to the private
sector.

The ordinary, citizens in different parts of the country may be
unaware of the negative impacts of climate change. Sensitization
campaigns are being launched by the government to raise
awareness throughout the country.

Somalia, Mr. President, is recognized by the Convention as being
extremely vulnerable to the adverse impacts of the climate change.
It is prone to droughts, floods, the disappearance of its biodiversity,
and the rise in the sea level. Somalia does not, however, receive the
attention it deserves. The response of the international community
with regard to the plight of Somalia leaves a great deal to be
desired.

For us to be able to cope with the devastating impacts of climate .
change and become part of a global low-carbon future, it is
imperatively important that the developed countries attend to our
short and long-term recovery plans. Somalia's climate change
impacts are not very different from those experienced by the other
Least Developing Countries. But the current reality in the country
necessitates that. its mitigation and adaptation schemes, for
instance, are circumstance-specific. Somalia can take measures in
adaptation and mitigation in accordance with its specific national
conditions and capacity. It will also ensure that its mitigation and
adaptation are gender-specific.

The strong messages conveyed by the World Leaders and the
Presidency of COP21, and by the UN Secretary General as to the
dire need for us to come up with an agreement that is binding,
ambitious, and comprehensive ought to be taken into very serious
consideration. Climate change predicament can no longer be
ignored, and the threats posed by its adverse impacts do not need
any further emphasis.

We concur with their assertion that “failure to reach consensus in
Paris will endanger all countries’ long-term wellbeing”. But having
said this, Somalia also believes that any effort that aims at addressing
the climate change must be based on the principles of the
UNFCCC, the Kyoto Protocol, and the Bali Road Map.

The developed countries must be further committed to providing
adequate resources and financing in the areas of adaptation and
mitigation for all developing countries that are vulnerable to the
adverse effects of climate change, particularly the LDCs and the
Small Islands Developing States.

In conclusion, let me reiterate what | had said in the previous COPs,
“We must not squander this opportunity. The entire world is watching
us. Our children are eagerly waiting for tangible results from this
gathering”

