Your Excellency, the President of COP21/CMP11,
Excellencies, Ministers,
Distinguished delegates,
Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, on behalf of the Government of Brunei Darussalam and our delegation, I
would like to express our profound thanks and appreciation to the Government of
France for the excellent hosting of this very important Climate Change Conference in
this beautiful city of Paris.
Excellencies, ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,
While Brunei Darussalam accounts for only a very small amount (0.016%) of global
greenhouse emission, we stand ready to play our part as much as we can in supporting
the global efforts in combating climate change.
We have already submitted our INDCs as a manifestation of our intention to play our
role in the global community. The policies and actions in our INDCs are aligned with our
national development priorities and national circumstances. It includes policies and
actions directed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and building resilience to the
adverse impacts of climate change. In reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we intend
to implement economy-wide policies and actions to realize the following aspirations:
• First, by 2035 we aim to reduce our ‘business as usual’ energy consumption by
63%;
• Second, by 2035 we aspire to source 10% of the total power generation from
renewable energy;
• Third, by 2035 we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from morning peak
hour vehicle use by 40% compared to a ‘business as usual’ scenario; and
• Fourth, to enhance mitigations benefits from our forests, we planned to increase
our protected forests from 41% to 55% of our total land area.
Recognizing that Brunei Darussalam’s economy is heavily dependent on its oil and gas
industry, we view our INDC as ambitious and represents a significant progression from
our previous undertakings. Delivery of the contributions will require major investments in
new technologies, such as the promotion of renewable energy technologies in spite of
currently not being cost-competitive with existing conventional fossil based energy in
Brunei Darussalam’s. Although our existing protected forest cover constitutes almost
half of its relatively small land area of 5,765 square kilometers, Brunei Darussalam
plans to increase its forests coverage by 14%.
Brunei Darussalam aspires to accord its people with a high quality living. Enhancing
climate resilience and adapting to climate change plays a major role in achieving this.
For this our INDC includes policies and actions to protect the biodiversity of our
ecosystem, mitigate floods and safeguard our coastal area from erosion.
Excellencies, ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,
Like many other countries, Brunei Darussalam contributions to the global effort in
addressing climate change hinges very much on our capability and capacity to address
and overcome our human resources, institutional, technical and technological
challenges. The complexity of climate change challenges and the diversity of the
countries involved warrant that the new climate change agreement to be adopted at this
21st Session of the Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC must take into account of
differing national priorities and circumstances.
The diverse countries must act together, collaborate and synergise each other’s
strength and experiences especially in dealing with the transboundary and global
environmental challenges. Brunei Darussalam is ready to pledge our full support for the
adoption of a new climate change agreement and stand ready to work with colleagues
to make this Conference a success.
Under the Chairman’s wise and able leadership we are confident that we will conclude
this Conference with concrete and pragmatic outcomes that will facilitate our
collaboration in addressing current and future global climate change challenges.
Thank You.
