
Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
The Republic of San Marino is proud to take the floor at the 21st Conference 
of the Parties and thanks the French authorities for the excellent organization 
and hospitality at a time of great challenges, especially for our continent and 
for the values of our civilization. 
My country very much hopes that a legally binding universal climate 
agreement is reached by the end of this Conference, with the objective of 
keeping global warming below 2°C. 
If we fail, human beings will not have a second chance for the survival of the 
planet and mankind. We need to act properly, seriously and effectively now, 
not in the years to come. It is our responsibility and our duty. We must 
succeed, leaving to younger and future generations the possibility to enjoy 
the beauty of our planet. 
I complet ely agree with the UN Secretary General when he says that the 
Paris Agreement must be durable, dynamic, credible and based on solidarity. 
We are well aware that developed and developing, large and small countries 
share a common destiny and must act jointly to secure global well -being and 
political stability. We must work to oblige every country to share its part of 
responsibility, preventing less developed countries from paying the highest 
price, as is the case today. Desertification and floods more and mor e often 
severely hit populations suffering from malnutrition and lacking access to 
basic resources, health and education. This must be considered unacceptable 
by every human being.  
As to my country, San Marino communicated its national contribution to 
favour clarity, transparency and understanding and is committed to reduce, 
by 2030, its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 2005 levels. 
Since 2008, the environmental policies implemented on the basis of our 
National Energy Plans have improved the energy performance of buildings, 
increased the production of electricity from renewable sources and reduced 
energy consumption. Though a non -Annex 1 country to the Kyoto Protocol, 
which was ratified in January 2010, San Marino is engaged in a virtuous path . 
Since 2009, we have consistently supported the photovoltaic market, now 
covering 8% of energy needs for residential use and 2.8% of total energy 
needs. We have quite recently adopted a virtuous policy concerning waste 
management, reduction of solvent emi ssions into the atmosphere and the 
application of new technologies in agriculture and land use. 
Another major step forward was made in 2012 with the introduction of an 
Environmental Code. More recently, in order to promote health, we adopted 
WHO guidelines “Health 2020” and “Health in All Policies” focusing, inter alia , 
on environmentally correct life -styles. In July 2015 San Marino accepted the 
Doha Amendment. 
However, we know very well that there is a lot of room for improvement, also 
in cultural terms. While policy makers have the responsibility of guiding a 
more sustainable pattern of development, families and schools must feel 
deeply engaged in a cultural “r evolution” where every single community 
member is aware of the importance of adopting eco -friendly lifestyles, 
respectful of natural resources. We are deeply convinced of the important 
role played by all segments of society and ready to share our portion o f 
responsibility and engagement for the Conference to be successful and our 
planet to survive. 
Thank you for your attention. 
 