Mr. President, I greet you on behalf of H.E. President David Granger and the
Government and people of the green land of Guyana.

Allow me to congratulate the Government and people of France for hosting this 21%
Conference of the Parties, and for the excellent arrangements which have been made for
our work here in Paris. In the midst of extreme adversity you have triumphed.

Recalling the brutal attack on French soil just weeks ago, Guyana once again extends our
condolences to the Government and people of France and we unequivocally condemn all
acts of terrorism.

We assemble here in the face of global challenges, not the least the existential threat of
unchecked climate change. No longer an issue of the future, it is one of the greatest
threats facing humanity today. COP 21 is an opportunity for humanity. Paris must
deliver an Agreement which is legally binding, based on the principles of the
Convention, and which provides the resources for transformative action that will allow
us to mitigate and adapt to climate change.

Mr. President, Guyana is committed to developing a Green Economy. Our abundant
rainforests have, over the years, been conserved and sustainably managed. We are
proud to say that we have among the lowest deforestation rates and highest forest
carbon storage per capita in the world. In 2009, in a pioneering partnership with the
Kingdom of Norway, Guyana formulated and commenced implementation of a low
carbon development strategy and a REDD Plus initiative.

Mr. President, not only is REDD Plus the most cost effective mitigation tool, but it is
also impossible to achieve a target of 1.5 or even 2 degrees without the contribution of
the world’s forests. We join with others in urging that the 2015 Agreement include a
REDD Plus mechanism and a provision for the resources to implement it.

In the context of our pursuit of a green economy, our country has embarked on a pilot
initiative to create Guyana’s first Green Town. We hope, with adequate support, to
transfer lessons learned to other urban centres in a truly bottom-up, and country driven
approach to green low emission development. We are also working to develop new
sources of renewable energy, including hydropower.

Guyana is extremely concerned at the low level of ambition in emission reduction
targets necessary to stabilize global emissions. Among the lowest emitters in the world,
Guyana developed and submitted an iNDC ahead of the October 1 deadline. We are
disappointed that aggregate targets and actions pledged in iNDC’s still take us to almost
3 degrees warming. This is unacceptable, as it will spell disaster for small island and
coastal low lying developing states like Guyana, where most of our population and
infrastructure exist at or below sea level. The Paris Agreement must serve to protect us.
In this regard, we join with the many other vulnerable countries in calling for
commitments for mediumi and’ long-term emission reduction pathways that are
consistent with a 1.5 degree goal.

Given the current low level of mitigation ambition and the severe impacts that face
vulnerable countries in the medium and long term, we cannot over-emphasize the
importance of adaptation as a key element in the new Agreement, with adequate
resource provisions to support implementation of national adaptation actions. We
support including a mechanism for loss and damage in the new Agreement.

We further urge that the special vulnerabilities of SIDS be explicitly recognized in the
context of adaptation support, that such support be commensurate with our growing
needs and be provided in a form that recognizes the capacity constraints of SIDS.

Mr. President, the critical role of support in the implementation of the 2015 Agreement
cannot be over-emphasised. Developed countries must continue to take the lead in
providing scaled up, sustainable, new, additional and predictablé climate finance to
developing countries using the 2009 pledge of US$100 billion per year as a floor. It is
also imperative that we recognize that both SIDS and LDC's face particular capacity
constraints in accessing financial resources. The Paris agreement must include a
commitment to improve access, including direct access, for these countries.

COP 21 will long be regarded as a crossroad in history. The outcome of these
negotiations will chart the kind of future that-succeeding generations will inherit. Let us
leave Paris with an ambitious, balanced, equitable, legally binding Agreement that
provides for the poor and the wealthy as equally as it provides for the strong and the
vulnerable among us. Future generations will look back and ask - did we, in 2015 Paris,
do the right thing. Let us not fail them.

