Mr. President, Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, distinguished delegates, 
 
Firstly, let me express my utmost gratitude to the Government and People of 
France and in particular to His Excellency President of the Conference of the 
Parties Mr. Laurent Fabius , for preparing and hosting such an important 
international event. We highly appreciate that despite the recent brutal 
terrorist attacks France did not lose the courage to hold this significant 
conference. Also due to this reason we all must strive for reaching a successful 
outcome of the se climate negotiations . 
Let me also fully associate with the Statements presented by the EU and its 
Member States. By all means climate change is one of the most serious global 
threats the world is facing. Throughout this year, we have witness ed extreme 
weather events in many forms all around the world . There is no doubt that 
climate change has a fundamental impact not only on the environment but also 
on our economic prosperity , an effective poverty eradication as well as a 
challenge for the national security .
 To tackle climate change effectively we need to act jointly and a ll Parties must 
contribute by their fair share in securin g our future and be part of the new 
agreement. Here, in Paris, w e need to reach a legally binding agreement which 
will ensure that the increase in average global temperature will be limited to 2 
degrees Celsius above pre -industrial levels. It is important as well that t he new 
agreement must enable us to increase the ambition over time. The new 
agreement must be well balanced and therefore necessary attention needs to 
be paid to other substantial components of the new climate regime. Mitigation 
should be closely linked to adaptation measures to limit adverse effects of 
climate change. Proper financial and technological support together with 
capacity building will be significant to ensure effective implementation of the 
new agreement. 
 
In adopting an effective, durable and fair agreement here in Paris we will 
express our responsibility towards current and future generations . The Czech 
Republic is well on the track to fulfil the commitments under the Convention 
and its Kyoto Protocol. Our greenhouse gas emission level in 2013 was below 
34 per cent compared to the 1990 levels. Jointly with the EU and its Member 
States, we have submitted the Intended National Determined Contribution 
 (INDC) and made an ambitious commitment to further reduce the greenhouse 
gas emissions by at least 40 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990. 
 
To meet our current and future commitments and contributions, we will 
continue to implement and develop ambitious and effective climate policies on 
national level. Nowadays, we are finalizing a new Climate Protection Policy in 
the Czech Republic, which will help us with transformation to a low carbon 
economy by 2050. It will focus on mitigation measures with the highest 
potential in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and carbon intensity in 
different sectors ( e.g. energy, industry, transport, waste, agriculture and 
forestr y). In addition to this the Czech Republic has been investing significant 
financial resources in energy efficiency and green heating in various sectors 
including households and industry. The total budget for these measures will 
reach more than 2 bill. Euro s by 2020. 
 
Like other countries the Czech Republic has experienced many floods and long -
lasting droughts causing severe and irreversible damage. Therefore, we have 
prepared a comprehensive National Adaptation Strategy, which was adopted 
just a few weeks ago. This strategy reflects scientific findings, informs about 
possible negative impacts and proposes adaptation measures in many affected 
 areas (e.g. water management, forestry, agriculture, urban environment, 
health, crisis management, etc.). 
 
We are aware of the fact that the poorest and most vulnerable developing 
countries are dependent on support to address their domestic climate 
challenges. In this respect we consider the Green Climate Fund as an important 
instrument for delivering necessary financial support. The Czech Republic has 
pledged 5,3 mil. USD to the Green Climate Fund and contributed another 2 mil. 
USD to the German s Climate Finance Readiness Programme. I would like to use 
this o pportunity and assure you that the Czech Republic will continue to 
provide necessary support to developing countries in order to assist them in 
their adaptation and mitigation needs and efforts. 
 
Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
In recent years all the Parties have been actively engag ing in negotiations of the 
new agreement . We know that these negotiations are quite complex and very 
difficult. However , we should not waste the enormous efforts we have invested 
so far . Let us transform our ambitious goals and intentions into a real and  
 workable legally binding Paris outcome that will contribute to a safer life on 
this planet. 
 
Thank you for your attention. 
 