Ladies and Gentlemen.
The United Republic of Tanzania as Coordinator
of the Committee of the African Heads of State
and Government on Climate Change (CAHOSCC)
is honored, on behalf of Africa, to address the
20th Session of the Conference of Parties (COP)
and the 10th session of the Conference of the
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to
the Kyoto Protocol (CMP).
At the outset, I wish to reaffirm Africa’s deepest
appreciation of Peru’s leadership at this
Conference and pledge our fullest support to you,
Mr. President, in your endeavor to ensure a
successful Conference of the Parties with the
usual support of Madam Christiana Figueres,
Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC and her team.
Let me also recognize the exemplary leadership
of the outgoing COP President, H.E. Mr. Marcin
Korolec of Poland that led to groundbreaking
decisions that were made at COP19/CMP9 in
Warsaw last year.
I also commend H.E. Mr. Ban Ki Moon, UN
Secretary General, for the timely convening of
the UN Climate Summit in New York, September
this year. The climate actions that were
pronounced by global leaders from governments,
corporates, businesses, companies, civil societies
and philanthropies presented our collective will
to address the enormous challenges of climate
change we all face today.
Mr. President;
For Africa, Climate change is indeed a challenge.
Despite registering strong economic growth in
recent years, most African economies rely on
climate-sensitive sectors highly exposed to
climate variability, drought, flooding, which are
disrupting agricultural production endangering
livelihoods and health, pushing marginalized
groups further down into the vicious cycle of
poverty. Seventy per cent of agricultural land in
Africa is already degraded affecting sixty seven
per cent of the entire African population. A
quarter of the African population (200 million
people) suffers from acute water shortage. On
the other hand, we know very well that if Africa
focuses on smart choices, it can win investments
in the next few decades in climate resilient
development pathways. Thus the most important
matter before us and within the new agreement
is how to make sure Africa adapts and
participates effectively in the global efforts to
mitigate climate change without compromising
her development agenda.
Mr. President;
We must all work together towards an
agreement that will help us to focus on strategic
choices within the framework of the Convention
that can ensure climate resilient and low
emission development pathways for a
sustainable future. Under CAHOSCC leadership,
Africa is already making such choices to
contribute towards this goal through various
efforts and initiatives. In June this year, the
African Union adopted a High Level Framework
Work Programme on Climate Change Action in
Africa. The Work programme covers all the key
areas that we believe are of Africa’s immediate
and long-term interest. They include: Climate
Financing and Technology needs; An Africa-wide
Programme on Adaptation; Actions on Mitigation;
Cross-cutting actions and Participation;
International Cooperation as well as
Institutional mechanism for follow up. We
believe if these actions are adequately
implemented, Africa will be able to contribute to
the global efforts to address climate change
Mr. President;
Africa is committed to working with all parties to
achieve a legally binding agreement in 2015. The
principles of Common but Differentiated
Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities and
Equity should be upheld. Any new agreement
need to be guided by the Climate Change
Convention, allowing the participation and
considerations of all areas of interest within this
instrument we all signed on.
In relation to the Intended Nationally
Determined Contributions (INDCs), as adopted
during COP19, Africa wishes to underscore the
inclusion of all elements of adaptation,
mitigation, climate finance, technology and
capacity building. Furthermore, the Agreement
should take into account the need for addressing
loss and damage as a global concern.
To be more specific, Africa underlines the
following:
1.Reduction of Emissions
 Each country should strive to take, in
accordance with its national circumstances,
bold and ambitious reduction efforts to
ensure that temperature levels are limited
to well below 2oC;
 For adaptation and mitigation to succeed,
African countries must be supported
financially and technologically; and
 Developed country Parties need to take
economy-wide emission reduction
 We commend those countries that have
contributed around USD 9.7 billion to the
Green Climate Fund (GCF) so far and urge
others to do the same to enable African
countries in undertaking adaptation and
mitigation actions as agreed. Nevertheless,
Africa is concerned that the LDC Fund and the
Adaptation Fund are not getting the
contributions as committed. Africa therefore
calls on developed countries to honour their
many commitments and pledges on climate
financing made at various fora;
 While the Framework for REDD plus was
adopted in Warsaw, Africa is seriously
concerned with lack of clarity on the REDD
financing, particularly to the host
governments and local communities.
3. Agriculture and Food Security
 Africa’s socio-economic development is
mainly hinged on agricultural sector, which
is increasingly being impacted by climate
change.
 Africa thus, urges Developed Countries to
support the development and adoption of
appropriate climate resilient technologies
in agricultural production, processing and
value chain development – to address the
food security and poverty reduction
imperatives in the continent.

 Adaptation remains Africa’s priority as we
move along. For Africa, adaptation should
not be treated as a national problem:
 The short, medium and long term costs of
adaptation can never be met by African
countries whose economies are dependent
on climate sensitive sectors;
 Therefore Africa calls for adaptation to be a
global goal in the 2015 agreement and
urges developed country parties to support
adaptation as a global priority.
Mr. President;
In conclusion, Africa calls on developed countries
to come forward with enhanced mitigation
commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and
under the Climate Change Convention. As part of
our contributions to the global efforts to address
climate change, Africa will focus on smart choices
that will allow investments in climate resilient
and low emission development pathways that
can contribute to vibrant societies, robust
economies, and healthy environment on the
continent.
Africa remains committed to providing the
political leadership towards addressing climate
change as we move towards Paris and beyond.
We look forward to constructively engage all
parties to reaching an agreement here in Lima
that will pave the way for the much awaited
agreement in Paris, next year.
I thank you all for your kind attention.