 LIMA , Peru – December 9, 2014 – Today, the Honourable Leona Aglukkaq, Minister of the 
Environment, Minister of the Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency and Minister 
for the Arctic Council, issued the following national statement at the 20th Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change: 
 
“I am honoured to be here in beautiful Lima representing Canada at this important Conference 
of the Parties. 
 
“As COP 21 in Paris approaches, it is Canada’s hope that this week will see progress on 
establishing a final agreement to address climate change. By bringing together so many 
leaders, I am certain that we will have productive discussions towards an agreement that 
would see all major emitters commit to do their fair share. 
 
“Canada is a country that has always done its part. And we will continue to do our part. We 
remain fully committed to the development of an international climate change agreement that 
is fair, effective and includes meaningful and transparent commitments from all major emitters.  
 
“We have demonstrated this commitment both domestically and internationally. 
 
“On the international stage, Canada was proud to provide $300 million to the Green Climate 
Fund to support developing countries as they address climate change. 
 
“This important contribution builds on Canada’s previous investment under the Fast -Start 
Financing Initiative. 
 
“The Government of Canada fully delivered on this commitment by providing $1.2 billion in 
funding to support a range o f projects to help more than 60 developing countries adapt to 
climate change and increase renewable energy. 
 
“In total, over the last five years, Canada has contributed $1.5 billion in climate financing —
again demonstrating our longstanding commitment to support successful international efforts 
focused on addressing climate change. 
 
“Canada is also working with other countries through complementary international forums. 
 
“As a founding partner and major financial contributor to the Climate and Clean Air C oalition, 
Canada is leading international efforts to tackle short -lived climate pollutants, such as black 
carbon, methane and hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs. 
 
 “HFCs are the world's most potent and fastest -growing GHG s. If left unchecked, they are 
projected to increase substantially over the next 10 to 15 years. So, Canada has made it a 
priority to limit the growth of these GHGs. 
 
“Together with the United States and Mexico, Canada is leading international efforts to use the 
expertise and institutions of the Montreal Protocol to address HFCs. In November, Parties to 
the Montreal Protocol considered a proposal put forward by Canada, the United States and 
Mexico to phase down HFCs. 
 
“In 2015, the Parties will hold an additional meeting where Canada intends once again to 
encourage countries to engage constructively in discussions on issues related to HFC 
management. 
 
“Canada firmly believes it is important for countries to take domestic action now on HFCs in 
advance of a comprehensive, international phase -down agreement. 
 
“Canada is also using its chairmanship of the Arctic Council to take action on black carbon and 
methane to address short -lived climate pollutants. 
 
“This work is a priority to Canada as scientists have predicted that action to reduce short -lived 
climate pollutants can help avoid a significant portion of projected warming in the Arctic over 
the next four decades. 
 
“For our part, Canada accounts for less than 2 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions 
and our country has one of the cleanest electricity systems in the world —with nearly 
80 per cent of our electricity coming from sources that emit no greenhouse gases. 
 
“Building on our record as a clean energy leader, we are continuing to advance our balanced 
sector -by-sector regulatory approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
“Under this approach, we have already taken decisive action to regulate the transportation and 
electricity sectors, which are two of the largest sources of emissions in Canada. 
 
“Our actions to reduce emissions from coal —which is the largest source of GHG emissions in 
the world —have positioned Canada as world leader in this regard. 
 
“In fact, in 2012, we became the first major coal user to ban the construction of traditional coal -
fired electricity generation units. 
 
“We are proud to have led in this area and we will certainly see significant long -term emissions 
reductions. 
 
“In fact, in thei r first 21 years, Canada’s coal regulations are expected to result in a cumulative 
reduction in GHG emissions equivalent to removing 2.6 million personal vehicles from the road 
per year over this period. 
 
 “Our transportation regulations will also signific antly contribute to long -term emissions 
reductions in Canada. 
 
“As a result, we predict that over the lifetime operation of 2017 to 2025 model year 
automobiles and light trucks, we will see total GHG reductions of 174 megatonnes. This is 
roughly equivalen t to one year of emissions from Canada’s entire transportation sector. 
 
“A particularly important part of Canada’s approach to the transportation sector was regulatory 
alignment with the United States , especially given how integrated the transportation sec tor is in 
North America. This approach allowed us to reduce our emissions while protecting the 
Canadian economy. We similarly support a North American approach to the oil-and-gas sector. 
 
“In another area of domestic action, last week I announced Canada wa s following through on 
the commitment we made in New York to reduce HFCs. 
 
“As I stated earlier, taking action on HFCs is hugely important. By taking action on HFCs, 
Canada is now among those countries showing leadership by taking early action on these 
substances, which could account for up to 19 per cent of global GHG emissions by 2050 if no 
immediate action is taken. 
 
“Canada hopes that other countries follow our lead on addressing HFC emissions. It won’t be 
easy, but if we take action now we will help pr event a bigger problem down the road. 
 
“Canada stands ready to help its international partners, and we will continue to move forward 
with measures in a way that reduces greenhouse gas emissions while maintaining economic 
growth. 
 
“Our record speaks for itself. We have shown that it is possible to protect the environment 
while supporting economic growth. 
 
“In fact, in 2012, GHG emissions were 5.1 per cent lower than 2005 levels while the economy 
grew by 10.6 per cent during the same period. 
 
“Further, Ca nada’s per capita emissions have now fallen to their lowest level since we started 
recording in 1990. 
 
“Thanks to our leadership and the actions of different levels of government, Canadian 
businesses, and our citizens, Canada’s 2020 GHG emissions are proj ected to be 130 
megatonnes lower compared to what they would have been had we taken no action to reduce 
GHG emissions since 2005. 
 
“Moving forward, Canada is actively preparing its contributions. We are engaging our provincial 
and territorial governments w ho hold many levers for taking substantive and innovative action 
on climate change. They have been an important part of Canada’s progress and I expect their 
actions will be an important part of Canada’s contribution under a new international climate 
agreement. 
 
 “We are proud of the work we have accomplished, and I can say with confidence that we will 
continue to take decisive actions. 
 
“As we approach next year’s meeting in Paris, Canada will continue to work with our 
international partners and be one of the strongest advocates for a final agreement that 
includes all major emitters. 
 
“I am confident we can achieve a final agreement. However, it will require courage and 
common sense. 
 
“Thank you .” 
 
