First and foremost, I would like to thank the Peruvian hosts for their splendid 
hospitality given to me and my delegates since our arrival here, in this beautiful 
city Lima. 
Climate change is the most urgent global challenge. We must keep pushing 
together for solutions to do more and to act accordingly. Therefore , we must agree 
on what have to be done in the coming years. 
Let me first tell you what we are doing in Ethiopia. 
As you all know, Ethiopia is still a Least Developed Country even if its gross 
domestic product has been growing by an average of more than 10% for the last 11 
years. Also as you all know, our Convention does not require developing country 
Parties, let alo ne the least developed among them, to take mandatory mitigation 
actions. 
This is both - because developing country Parties have contributed virtually 
nothing to the global increases in greenhouse gases, and equally importantly, 
because their capacity to take mitigation actions is very low. 
But we in Ethiopia believe that however small our contribution to the atmospheric 
content of greenhouse gases is and however small our capacity is, we need to do 
the best we can to mitigate climate change , and not only to adapt to it. 
That is why we have developed and are implementing our Programme of 
Adaptation to Climate Change . That is also why, under the leadership of our late 
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi , we formulated our vision of developing our country  
 to make it a zero net carbon emitter of middle income status by 2025, taking 
2010 as a base year . 
As of this year, our electrical grid is generated entirely from renewable resources . 
We know that it will take time for grid electricity to reach all households . And for 
the same reason , we are also investing in off-grid power systems, efficient cook 
stoves and biogas technolog ies. 
Similarly , we are also planting billions of tree seedlings each year to rehabilitate 
and reforest our degraded landscapes, much of it suppor ted by soil moisture 
retention structures (micro basins, trenches, and terraces). The treated areas are 
indeed protected from any kind of unnecessary human and animal interference and 
therefore the change is also found to be highly encouraging in all terms: 
economically , and ecologically. 
 
The country is also aggressively moving for industrializing its economy. However, 
we do not want our industrialization process to contribute to the globally serious 
environmental problem of climate change. As a country, we believe we have the 
opportunity to do it the greener way. As I have tried to state it above ; Ethiopia is 
believed to have ample potential for renewable s ources development and therefore 
can easily free itself from the pollutant energy system (the fossil fuel and coal) . 
 
I could have said more on how we are implementing our Climate Resilient Green 
Economy Strategy. 
But time does not allow me. However , I would like to add just one thing. Our 
climate actions and efforts would not have been as effective as they have turned 
out to be, if our development partners, who are all developed country Parties to the 
Convention on Climate Change, and the United Nations system, had not been very 
helpful – both technically and financially . 
 
This conference seems to be very critical if we want to have a legally binding 
agreement in Paris next year. Therefore , we must work together for the common 
outcome.  To make agreement possible, we must leave Lima with a clear 
roadmap reaching a consensus. The Paris agreement must be rigorous enough, and 
it has to support concrete action s and measures . 
In this regard , Ethiopia has made a courageous decision on embarking CRGE and 
experienced encouraging result s on the ground. I hope that our example will 
inspire others to raise their sights far most , to be ambitious, and to find a way 
forward. 
We owe success in Lima and then in Paris to our coming generations. 
Thank you very much. 