[Mr President], Ministers, colleagues. 
 
What a pleasure it is to be here in Lima, and I extend Australia's 
deepest thanks go to Peru for hosting this important conference.  
 
Australia has a strong track record of playing a constructive role in 
the global response to global climate change. We take on 
commitments and we deliver against them.  
 
We don’t take lightly our commitments. Climate change is a 
challenge for us all, with serious environmental, social and 
economic conseq uences. Individually and collectively we must 
deliberate carefully and determine the best course of action to 
reduce emissions. 
 
This action must deliver real cuts in emissions and not put 
countries at a competitive disadvantage. And it must work 
alongside countries ’ plans for strong economic growth, jobs and 
development. 
 
Australia joined the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, 
and we took on a legally binding target. We met it, indeed 
exceeded it. 
 
We are party to the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol.  As we undertook to do in Warsaw, we are implementing 
our commitment and following all Kyoto Protocol rules. We want to 
see those rules finalised here in Lima.  
 
Australia has an ambitious 2020 target. We will reduce our 
emissions by 5 per cent on 2000 levels by 2020. This is a 
significant cut – minus 19 per cent from business as usual. Our 
target is comparable to those taken by other developed countries.  
 
At home, we have put in place policies to ensure that we deliver on 
our interna tional targets. 

In 2001, Australia set the world’s first mandatory renewable energy 
target. This was expanded and extended in 2009. It means we will 
generate at least 20 per cent of our electricity from renewables in 
2020.  
 
We are taking further direct action. At the heart of our Direct Action 
Policy is a $2.55 billion Emissions Reduction Fund. This fund will 
create opportunities and incentives for Australian business to take 
practical climate action. It will deliver real and measurable results 
for the environment while improving businesses competitiveness. It 
is a comprehensive approach to climate change that benefits the 
environment and the community.  
 
Looking to the future, Australia will work to secure an agreement in 
Paris that is strong, effective and ensures countries live up to their 
commitments. To deliver on its promise, the agreement must 
establish a common playing field, moving past the developed -
developing country divide that puts a brake on real action.  
 
Australia’s Prime Minister announced yesterday that a taskforce 
has been established within the Department of Prime Minister and 
Cabinet to consider a new post-2020 target for Australia to bring 
forward as we move towards Paris. The work of the taskforce will 
build on a review in the first half of next year of Australia ’s 
international emissions reduction targets and settings. That review 
will consider action by the major economies and our key trading 
partners when making its recommendation.  
 
We will announce our intended Nationally Determine d Contribution 
by mid-2015. 
 
Australia is taking climate action at home, and have we have a 
proven track record of supporting climate action internationally.  
 
Australia provided $600 million in Fast Start Finance. This 
represented almost 2 per cent of total global Fast Start Finance, 
even though we contribute only 1.3 per cent of global emissions.  
 
More than half of this $600 million supported country -driven 
adaptation action.  

At the Climate Finance Ministerial meeting yesterday, I announced 
Australia's contribution of $200 million over four years to the Green 
Climate Fund.  
 
This pledge will facilitate private sector led economic growth in the 
Indo-Pacific region with a particular focus on investments in 
infrastructure, energy, forestry and emissions reduction programs.  
 
It is part of Australia ’s broader portfolio of environmental aid 
investments, that includes: 
- an additional $10 million over two years for the Global Green 
Growth Institute, building on Australia ’s previous contribution of 
$15 million 
- $6 million to the Coral Triangle Initiative, to support sustainable 
marine management in our northern neighbourhood, and 
- $6 million to address deforestation in the Asia-Pacific through 
the Responsible Asia Forestry and Trade (RAFT) programme.  

Allow me to focus for a moment on research and development of 
new technologies. Australia has a long history of driving and 
supporting innovative and smart climate change solutions – both in 
Australia and in other countries.  
 
Carbon capture and storage is a concrete example, where we 
have committed over $300 million to low emissions coal 
technology research and development.  
 
The Gorgon LNG facility in my home state of Western Australia is 
one of the world’s largest natural gas projects and the single 
largest resource development in Australia ’s history. It is using best 
practice in emissions management including capture and storage.  
 
These examples highlight the good story Australia has to tell on 
climate change. We are taking action, we are delivering on our 
commitments and we are more than playing our part. 
 
This is what Australia does. 