Today, we are standing at a historical junction. We have worked tirelessly for 
years, and again last week, to try to bridge our differences. We have come a 
long way, but the road is long and the end is not yet in sight. 
 
The main reason why we are here in Paris is to put dangerous climate chang e 
to a halt. The first step is to draw the line at a level of temperature rise that 
minimises the risks that climate change poses to our very survival. As you 
know, Vanuatu is still recovering from nation -wide suffering and devastation 
inflicted by severe category 5 Cyclone Pam, now exacerbated by the drought 
induced by the strongest ever El Niño event. Human lives, the lives of my 
people, have been lost. 
 
We, the leaders of the world, must stop this crisis, drawing the line here in 
Paris. We wish we could prevent ALL further warming, so that further suffering 
is prevented. Lamentably, scientists tell us this is impossible, and further 
warming is inevitable. We do know that limiting warming to well-below 1.5 
degree Celsius IS still within our reach.  
 
For Vanuatu, this is about my people’s lives, not just an arbitrary number, but 
our very existence in small islands. The life-threatening droughts, catastrophic 
cyclones and the steady loss of our agricultural crops and coral reefs and 
fishing grounds are alrea dy wiping out our livelihoods and even the very 
existence of our villages. If the global community don’t recognise 1.5 degrees 
as the upper limit now, you will have quashed Vanuatu’s last chance to LIFE,  
what we strongly believe is our fundamental human right. We must draw the 
1.5 degree line firmly in the Global Goal of the agreement, and agree on legally 
binding, quantified mitigation commitments that increase global ambition over 
successive commitment cycles. My people also need us to take highly 
ambiti ous pre-2020 action that gets us onto the pathway of below 1.5 degree 
now. 
 
Mr. President, we won’t get the ambitious action Vanuatu needs without 
fairness and the rule of law. We have a constitution of international climate 
change law—the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change—which 
allocates rights and obligations based on historical responsibility and capacity. 
The Paris outcome must strengthen rather than weaken the principle of 
common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. 
Developed countries MUST uphold their obligations under the Convention to 
enable developing countries to realise their right to sustainable development. 
Finance, capacity building and technology must be delivered with the objective 
to limit the long-term temperature goal to below 1.5 degree. We also need a 
strong compliance mechanism capable of ensuring that we respect the 
commitments we have made in the UNFCCC, so that we don’t get further off 
track and lose more human lives.  
 
Of course, the Paris agreeme nt must also respond to the impacts of climate 
change that are already happening, and becoming ever worse. Our adaptation 
needs exceed our capacity. It is crucial that adaptation support rests on the 
developed countries’ obligations under the Convention rather than shifting the 
burden to developing countries with limited means. Of this support, we need 
clarity on sources and predictability. Procedures for direct access must be 
simplified. Finance must be scaled up dramatically to meet our adaptation 
needs.  
 
We need a standalone Article on Loss  and Damage, as a matter of survival 
for small island developing states like Vanuatu. The G77 proposal is 
reasonable and should be part of the Paris agreement. It must not be diluted.  
 
Mr. President, we are not just victims. Vanuatu is a proud nation with a wealth 
of cultural and traditional knowledge. We have 117 different languages and has 
been twice called the happiest nation on Earth. Our traditional knowledge gives 
us resilience and so we urge Parties to recognis e the rights of indigenous 
peoples and the importance of traditional knowledge in all relevant parts of the 
Paris agreement. Similarly, the rights of women, youth and persons with 
disabilities must be reflected throughout the agreement. Paris outcome 
Vanua tu envisages will protect our islands and cultures, and strengthen our 
resilience to cope with the climate change crisis.  It will enable us to exercise 
our human right to LIFE and to make our own unique contributions to the global 
community, and its happi ness, resilience and sustainability. 
 
Thank you Mr. President. 
 