Your Excellency Mr. Laurent Fabius , Minister of Foreign Affairs of France and President of COP 21 
Excellencies, Disting uished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Please allow to, once again, extend my and that of my Delegation’s deepest and most profound 
condolences to the Government and to the people of France , particularly to the citizens of Paris.
 
Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the innocent vict ims of Novem ber 13th. We pray for 
the speedy and complete recovery of the injured. 

Despite of the shock of this barbaric, cowardly, savage and dastardly terrorist attack from which the 
people of France are still in a State of Mourning, let it be known that no one can ever take away the joie 
du vivre of the people of France. 

We may be the United Nations of Great Grief but our love, strength in diversity, tolerance and unity is 
far more powerful than their bombs and guns can ever be! 
 
Climate Change and Intern ational Terrorism are two extremely serious issues which threatens Humanity 
and which must be dealt with all possible means at our collective disposal. 

Excellencies, Distinguishe d Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, 

I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to thank the Government of France and the organizers of 
the UNFCCCC COP21 for the excellent facilities provided and the warm hospitality extended to my 
Delegation in the beautiful City of Paris. 

If you would allow me, my fellow Delegates, to mention the most salient points of which my country is 
suffering from the ravages of Climate Change: 

Afghanistan is the number one most vulnerable LDC country in our immediate region because of Climate 
Change. 

Afghanistan is the 14th most vulnerable LDC country on the planet because of Climate Change. 
 
It is therefore, of utmost importance that we reach out toward all the countries attending this historic 
and august gathering to agree on a legally-binding mechanism in order to save our planet from further 
damage caused by Climate Change. 
 
We can, we should and we must come to an Agreement. 

Let us seize this historic opportunity which presents itself before us in these fina l and most critical days 
of the High -Level Segment to reach a proper, meaningful, and realistic and an equitable agreement for 
Humanity, for the present as well as, for the future generations and for every living life form on Earth.
 
I am sure that you all agree with me that we must collectively and responsibly act for t he welfare of our 
common Planet - Terra – a tiny beautiful little blue dot on the Celestial Map of our Solar System which 
supports Life as we know it. 

We stand before God, before Humanity, before History and before Our Collective Conscious to make 
COP21 successful. 

Therefore, let us be bold and take that step for Humanity and for Life itself! 
I thank you for your kind attention. 
