1 President of COP 21 
UNFCCC Executive Secretary 
Ministers and Heads of Delegations Distinguished National Delegates Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen  
 
1. Ghana wishes to thank the French government for 
hosting this year’s COP 21. We join the rest of the 
world in standing with the people of France as you 
strive to overcome the horrors that have been unleashed on your
beautiful country by forces of terror. 
 
2. Even in this trying time, the French government and 
people have continued to welcome us in a spirit of true courage and love. 
We truly appreciate this gesture. 
 
3. Mr. President, the challeng es and threat of climate 
change is no longer a subject of debate. The science 
is unquestioned; the impact is telling on our lives now 
and pose a threat to the future we want. 
 
4. Ghana continues to suffer from the impact of climate 
change. The ravages that af fected the city of Accra 
and other parts of Ghana from the recent floods on 3
rd June this year, are a vivid reminder of the gravity of 
the threats climate change pose to Ghana. 
 
5. Mr. President, this COP is a “big step” and another 
golden opportunity for us to secure a livable world for 
our youth and generations to come. The duty is not 
only a moral one, but also one that we owe to future 
generations. We cannot afford to fail by not acting 
decisively today, here and now. 
 
6. Ladies and gentlemen, Ghan a would therefore wish to 
reiterate its position that the UNFCCC is capable of 
producing “an ambitious an d balanced multilateral 
agreement” here in Paris. We are in solidarity with the 
Position of Africa and G77+ China in calling for  
 
7. A global climate deal that : 
 Is truly respects the right of nations to pursue 
sustainable development;  
 Is fair and provides equa l opportunity for all and 
at the same time; 
 keeps us on track to achieve the 2 degree 
temperature goal. 
 
8. Towards the agreement that we seek to achieve we 
call for equal treatment of the issues that threaten 
the foundation of our ec onomies and the social 
wellbeing of our people. Thes e issues as we all know 
are finance, adaptation, lo ss and damage, technology 
development and transfer, mitigation and above all 
gender and youth. 
 
9. Mr. President, on the issu e of REDDplus, we have 
developed an ambitious emission reduction programme 
covering an area of 5.9m ha cocoa-forests 
mosaic landscape in the sout hern half of the country. 
This programme is expected to begin in 2016 and end 
in 2036. With adequate support and investment, 
Ghana expects to generate ab out 598.2 million tons of 
carbon dioxide equivalents in emission reductions, 
over the life of the programme. 
 
10. This REDDplus programme can be scaled up if 
additional investment and in centives can be provided. 
The success and sustainabi lity of this programme 
however, hinges largely on the associated non-carbon 
benefits from the implement ation of this programme. 
Cocoa is Ghana’s main export commodity. The 
livelihoods of over half a million farmers are tied to 
this important crop. Aside from the mitigation 
benefits of implementing REDDplus, the programme is 
 expected to increase yield per hectare. This should 
lead to a corresponding increase in the profits of the 
farmers, export revenue to the country and sustainabl
 supply for the chocolate industry. It is these non-carbon 
benefits that would make the 
implementation of REDD+ sustainable in the long-
term. Ghana wishes to asso ciates itself with the 
African Group call for the Paris Agreement to send a 
strong signal about the importance of REDD+ and the 
associated non-carbon benefits 
 11. Mr. President, Ghana re affirms its resolve to 
support global efforts to define a common future that 
seeks to safeguard the co llective interest of all 
nations.  
 
12. In this regard, Ghana has put forward an INDC which 
contains 31 mitigation and adaptation actions. The 
inclusion of both mitigati on and adaptation in the 
INDC, resonates with Ghana’s Medium Term 
Development Agenda and our anticipated 40-year 
socio-economic transforma tional plan; Also of 
importance to us are th e universal Sustainable 
Development Goals. 
 
 
13. Of particular of interest to this COP is our
unconditional commitment to lower GHG emissions by 
15% compared to the busine ss as usual emission by 
2030. In the 10-year peri od, Ghana ne eds USD 22.6 
billion in investments from domestic, international,
 public and private sources to finance these actions. 
USD 6.3 billion is expected to be mobilized from 
domestic sources whereas the USD 16.3 billion will 
come from international support. 
 
14. Mr. President, Ghana is already committed to 
mobilising USD 7.2billion commericial facility to 
support the further de velopment of its gas 
infrastructure. 
 
15. This investment will not on ly make clean and cheap 
natural gas available to th e country but also help cut 
down on GHG emissions in the electricity sector. 
Furthermore, we are keen to mobilise additional 
financing to support inve stments in REDD+ and the 
Great Green Wall. 
 
16. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let me 
conclude by urging us all to be mindful of the key 
elements in our deliberations here on this multilateral 
platform, namely: 
 A multilateral climate agreement that is forward-
looking and result-oriented; and 
 Strong leadership and drive to achieve a balanced 
multilateral climate agreement;  
 
17. In so doing, together we can explore common 
grounds and above all “seek to build mutual trust” as 
equal partners in spite of our unequal capabilities. 
 
18. I wish as all fruitful negotiations. 
 
 God bless us all. 
 
Thank you 
 
 
 