On behalf of the delegation of Turkmenistan let me express my gratitude
to the organizers of the twenty-first session of the Conference of Parties
and the Government of France for their warm hospitality and excellent
conditions for successful work of the conference.

Dear Colleagues! In September this year at the 70" anniversary session
of the General Assembly of the United Nations in New York, we
discussed the Goals of sustainable development as the program of our
joint actions for the next 15 years. However, in order to achieve this
Goal we need to address the problem of global climate change.
Turkmenistan considers the sovereignty, rights and independent
development of all countries must be respected in implementing global
actions to mitigate climate change of the Earth. The principle of common
but differentiated responsibility should remain in force in new
Agreement.

Dear Colleagues! Based on the recommendations of the UNFCCC and
taking into account the specific climatic conditions the country, the
"National Strategy of Turkmenistan on Climate Change” was adopted by
Presidential Decree in 2012. Within the framework of the National
Strategy on Climate Change, Turkmenistan developed and adopted in
2013 the National Forest Program.

Currently the Third national Communication of Turkmenistan on fulfillment
of the UNFCCC is being finalized.

Also national plans for adaptation and mitigation are developed in the
framework of the National Strategy, which all together made up the
National economic action programs for adaptation and mitigation of
climate change. The program reflects the measures planned on
adaptation of socio-economic sectors to climate change and measures to
reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by 2030 in the claimed limits.

Dear Colleagues! Speaking at the 70" session of the UN General
Assembly, the His Excellency President of Turkmenistan has clearly
stated that Turkmenistan supports the adoption of the new international
Agreement on climate change in Paris. In order to facilitate the adoption
of the new Agreement, Turkmenistan has prepared its “Intended
Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC)”, which will be officially
submitted to the UNFCCC Secretariat after completion of the
Conference taking into account the decisions adopted. Turkmenistan is
committed to limiting greenhouse gas emissions and to improve
country's capacity to respond to climate change. In designing of the low-
carbon development policy, Turkmenistan takes into account its level of
economic and technological development and social consequences of
reducing the volume of emissions.

Supporting the efforts of the international community to reduce the
volume of greenhouse gas emissions, Turkmenistan moves to use
advanced environmentally friendly and resource-saving technologies in
the industry. The purpose of our country’s "low-carbon development" is
to achieve the stabilization of emissions growth or even start to reduce
their volume under the favorable economic environment by 2030. The
baseline scenario of economic development provides a steady annual
average growth of the economy for the period till 2030. Turkmenistan
will follow the policy of “low-carbon development” economy, which
corresponds to the long-term global goal of the new Agreement - not to
exceed the level of 2-degree increase in global mean temperature as
compared to pre-industrial period.

Dear Colleagues! Considering the specter of environmental problems in
Central Asia and the Caspian Sea region and adoption of the new
Agreement on climate change, it is important to strengthen multilateral
cooperation and create effective mechanisms in this area. At the 70th 
session of the UN General Assembly the His Excellency President of
Turkmenistan has put forward the initiative to Creale
United Nations the Regional Centre for technologies on climate change
issues for the Central Asian countries. Turkmenistan is ready in 2016
jointly with United Nations Development Programme to take steps for
establishing the above mentioned Center in Ashgabat. Considering the
complexity, versatility and relevance of the climate change problem, as
well as in order to enhance the capacity and activate climate change
measures, the establishment of such Regional Center may become as
one of the most effective mechanisms for the implementation of the new
climate Agreement.

Dear Colleagues! The global nature of climate change calls for the
broadest collaboration among all countries and we will take an active
part in effective implementation of respective international events!
Turkmenistan support the adoption of the new Agreement on climate
change and we hope that all Parties also will support it adoption and
implementation!

Thank you for attention!
