
Let me express my gratitude to the Government of Peru for 
hosting and organizing this conference in order to consolidate the 
efforts of all countries to develop a text of the new agreement and 
to agree effective measures to combat climate change. 
Kazakhsta n is the active participant in the climate 
negotiations. Inside the country the second National Allocation 
Plan is adopted for the allocation of quotas for greenhouse gas 
emissions, which encourages enterprises to modernize their 
production and implement energy -efficient technologies. 
The Republic of Kazakhstan has been consistently 
implementing a number of general economic measures to 
mitigate the effects of climate change in the concept of "green" 
economy launched in 2013 by the President of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. 
In general, the amount of investment required for the 
transition to a "green” economy will be about 1% of GDP 
annually. As of today, there is a clear understanding of what energy 
prospects of mankind must take into account the preservation of 
the planet's ecology and human health. The n ew technological 
breakthrough should be the beginning of solving problems with 
environmental and energy security. 
EXPO -2017 "Energy of the Future", to be held in Astana, 
capital of Kazakhstan, is designed to demonstrate the 
development of the energy sector in view of low -carbon growth 
and welfare of the people. 
"Green Bridge" Partnership Program, which was introduced 
by the President of Kazakhstan on the third Astana Economic 
Forum, today has thirteen member countries that have signed the 
Charter. 
Taking into account the need for collective action by the 
international community on the issue of reducing the negative 
impacts of climate change, the Republic of Kaz akhstan at the UN 
Climate Summit expressed support for the accession to the 
application of the established price on carbon emissions. 
The measures taken will allow Kazakhstan to improve the 
energy intensity of GDP and carbon intensity and have a positive 
impact on the competitiveness of the national economy. 
The international community is looking for the new sources 
of energy that will not cause ecologica l harm to the environment. 
Kazakhstan, as a country, is aimed to join the 30 developed 
countries in the world and adopted the "Strategy" Kazakhstan -2050 ", 
where our President tasked with the development of 
alternative and renewable energy sources. 
We are faced with important goals: the development of 
energy sector in order to ensure a high level of competitiveness, 
national and energy security, the development of scientific and 
technological capacity, as well as the creation of conditions for 
the conservation, restoration and improvement of the 
environment, making transitio n to a low -carbon and "green 
economy" development in Kazakhstan . 
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again the 
contribution of Kazakhstan to support the efforts of the 
international community in preventing negative impacts and 
adaptation to clima te change and encourage countries to carry 
out activities at the national level to improve the ecology of the 
planet for the future of humanity. 
 
Thank you for your attention. 