Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Last year , in Glasgow, we promised to do everything to 
accelerate our fight against climate change and its 
devastating effects . 
Meanwhile , the Russian aggression against Ukraine has 
confirmed that green transition is even more important 
to increase our resilience . 
Economic losses due to extreme weather events are 
alarmingly increasing. 

Over the last decade , Croatia suffered an average annual 
loss of 0 .5 % of its GDP .  
 Croatians have truly become aware of the need to 
mitigate the effects of climate change —more than 80% 
believe that we should act to prevent harmful 
consequences for people and the environment. 
Thanks to new national and European legislation , we 
have further accelerated the transition to low-carbon 
energy , in which Croatia is already well above the EU 
average. 
Indeed, two-thirds of our electricity and energy 
production come from renewable sources, which also 
provide one-third of our total final energy consumption. 
In order to give a strong impetus to the solarisation of 
our roofs , we have abolished the VAT on solar panels.  
Geothermal energy also represents our great potential, 
from heating to agriculture. 
Croatia, along with Slovenia and Italy, is participating in 
the North Adriatic Hydrogen Valley project aimed at 
producing green hydrogen. 
 We are also investing significant efforts in the 
decarbonisation of the transport sector.  
Over the next decade , we will invest more than 6 billion 
euros in the modernisation of the railways . 
By 2032, we will introduce a fleet of battery electric 
trains to replace diesel trains . 
Croatia is an increasingly popular destination , renowned 
for its unspoiled nature . 
We promote sustainable tourism and accommodation 
facilities with local and ecologically certified food 
production.  
Thanks to a targeted campaign in hotels and campsites , 
we reduced food waste by 10% in just one year. 
Over the past five years, Croatians have increased their 
recycling rate by a third and reduced the waste 
disposal rate by a quarter. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
In Europe, this summer was the hottest since the first 
meteorological records . 
Alas, scientists warn that it could also be one of the 
coldest of all summers to come. 
For the first time in history, the Adriatic Sea had 
warmed to a record 30 degrees Celsius as early as 
June. 
An unprecedented drought has caused 300 million 
euros in damage to Croatian agriculture . 
In Croatia alone, over 13,000 fires devastated an area 
more than twice the size of last year. 
However, w e have extended reforestation to our cities , 
where we fund urban tree planting . 
Adapt ing all sectors to extreme weather condition is 
key to prevent ing and minimiz ing loss and damage. 
 We support the discussions at this COP, which is taking 
place on a particularly vulnerable continent , to find 
adequate solutions to strengthen the resilience of our 
communities . 

Dear colleagues, 
To instigate change, we must start with ourselves. 
We have calculated the carbon footprint of the 
Croatia n Government building in order to reduce it. 
As symbolic as that may sound, every step counts to raise 
awareness among our fellow citizens . 
A real transition also requires close cooperation 
between policy makers and scientists, but also relevant 
data , timely models and a series of concrete measures 
that can be implemented by decision makers at all levels. 
Therefore, Croatia will establish a National Center for 
Climate and Ecological Transition as a center of 
expertise for all stakeholders.  
 Because nature is our best ally, in each of our actions let's 
prioritize "nature -based solutions first". 

Ladies and gentlemen, 
Since we last met, the world has changed irrevocably . 
However, the scientific data remains clear and 
unquestionable . 
We are witnessing an intolerable imbalance in 
greenhouse gas emissions: the richest 1 percent are 
responsible for 15 percent of emissions, twice as much as 
the poorest half of humanity . 
This is unfair and unsustainable. 
If we are to win this battle , those who emit the most must 
do much more and act urgently , especially we, in the 
developed world.  
This is not just a matter of moral fairness and solidarity, 
but it is also a rational necessity.  
 Nonetheless , all together —large and small States, rich 
and less rich countries —we must act according to our 
capacities , despite the current geopolitical upheavals and 
the related food and energy crises.  
At a time when oil and gas are weapon ised, we need to 
build partnerships anchored in shared values, including 
energy and climate goals, and pool our resources and 
infrastructure to be more resilient . 
Although we are currently facing economic headwinds, 
we must remain committed more than ever to 
implementing the green transition if our countries are 
to benefit from it. 
We simply cannot allow for today's crise s to turn into 
future disasters. 
It is up to all of us , and together, to make sure that 
this does not happen. 
Thank you. 