 Madam President, Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
It is my great pleasure to convey the warmest thanks to the Government of the Kingdom of 
Spain as well as the city of Madrid for organizing and hosting these notable Conferences at 
such short notice. 
 
The Republic of Croatia would like to underline its continued commitment to the Paris 
Agreement as the fundamental multilateral framework for the transition to a low -carbon society 
resilient to climate change. 
 
We believe th at this transition will stimulate industrial growth, the investment cycle and new 
business development, which will result in job creation and, ultimately, improve the quality of 
life for all citizens. 
 
On this occasion, as we are approaching the Croatian Presidency of the EU in 2020, I would 
like to call your attention to a very important 'Clean Energy for EU Islands' initiative. It was 
launched in 2017, during the Maltese Presidency of the EU, and focuses on the sustainability 
and energy transition of EU islands. 
 
This year, in February, 26 European islands officially launched their clean energy transition 
with the support of the European Commission’s Clean Energy for EU Islands Secretariat. 
 
We are pr oud that 4 out of 1244 islands in Croatia joined this initiative. During the first phase, 
in the summer of 2019, the Cres -Lošinj archipelago developed and published their clean energy 
transition agendas and we expect the other 3 islands, Brač, Korčula and Hvar, to follow their 
example in 2020. 
 
Investments in the energy future of EU islands mean investments in a sustainable and 
decarbonized Europe. EU islands, with their specific and innovative solutions, could take the 
lead in the activities that can deli ver sustainable energy projects. 
 
Madam President, distinguished delegates, 
 
2020 will be a year of ambition in the climate world, particularly significant for the full 
implementation of the Paris Agreement, the year in which the Parties will submit their 
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and their long -term low -carbon strategies. 
 
We believe the action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, already implemented by the EU and 
its Member States should be extended to all countries since only global action can ensure the 
realisation of the 1.5⁰ C temperature goal. 
 
Bearing in mind the current global situation with respect to climate change, the Republic of 
Croatia welcomes the upcoming European Green Deal and Climate Act as a response to the 
current crisis, which represents one of the greatest challenges of the modern world. 
 
Moreover, the priorities of the forthcoming Croatian Presidency in the field of environment and 
climate take into account the new, ambitious direction of the development of a green and 
sustainable Europe and they are complementary to the announced elements of the European 
Green Deal. 
 
Thank you. 