Dear President , 
Offering my congratulations to you on your elect ion as the President of UNFCCC COP 
25, I hope this conference will be successfully conducted with fruitful results under your 
skillful leadership 
I would also express my gratitude to the secretariat of UNFCCC and the Government of 
Spain who have devoted sincere efforts for successful opening of the conference and 
providing its wonderful venue . 
Dear President , 
Today climate change is critically threatening the survival of humankind and the future 
generations as well . The fact that records the high 
est temperature rise during the last five years clearly shows that it is the time for action 
for climate emergency . 
Today the Parties must reduce emissions by 45 % from 2010 levels by 2030, and must 
achieve climate neutrality by 2050, and in order to achieve these ambitious goals many 
countries are moving towards a sustainable green economic growth and low carbon 
development to address climate ch ange . 
The COP 24 held in Kato witze, Poland last year was of great significance in develop ing 
the rulebook for implementing the Paris Agreement. 
All the international communities should fulfill their role and responsibility in 
implementing the Paris Agreement. We are living in a same planet, and it is our common 
responsibility to protect our planet , our home . 
My delegation considers that the following issues need to be paid due attention in order 
to achieve the international goal to protect the global environment that coincide with the UN 
SDGs and to strengthen green economic growth. 
First, the developed countries should recognize the historical responsibility of climate 
change and fully implement the responsibility to provide financial support to the developing 
countries that are already stipulated in the Paris Agreement.  
 Today, the cost of loss and damage due to the climate change is too far beyond our 
imagination and the major victims of climate change are for sure the developing countries. 
It is a prerequisite that the developed countries emit ting most of the global greenhouse 
gases should faithfully implement its responsibility under the Paris Agreement. 
Second, international entities related to climate change should keep the principle of 
equity and justice in providing financial and technical support and take practical measures to 
provide sufficient and sustainable funds to developing countries for carrying out climate 
change mitigation and adaptation activities . 
Never, ever politicization should be allowed in resource allocati on and implementation 
of climate change related projects of developing countries . 
International collaboration and cooperation in the field of climate change mitigation and 
environment al protection should be strengthened in ord er to achieve the global goal of 
climate action based on the principle of protecting the mutual interest of countries. 
Dear President,  
Today, the DPRK is striving forward by putting its emphasis on the construction of 
socialist economic powerful state and upholding self -reliance firmly in its hand as a shield of 
prosperity. This year, we have formulated National Environment Protection Strategy (2019 -
2030) and National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy (2019 -2030), and are waging 
vigorously for their imple mentation. 
Under the wise leadership of Comrade KIM JONG UN, the Chairman of the State 
Affairs Commission of the DPRK, our country is implementing Forest Restoration Campaign 
to make all mountains into the ones of gold and treasure thickly wooded with trees. 
The country is also exploring and wisely utilizing various energy resources such as 
hydro and tidal power , wind energy, etc. and turn the current production process into energy 
saving mode, and wid ely introducing sustainable agricultural practices. 
The Government of the DPRK is paying due attention in tackling the global climate 
change issue to the principle of prioritizing sustainable economic development with 
improvement of people’s livelihood. 
Achieving the ambitious goals of Paris Agreement is not as easy as words , and neither 
 will it be achieved by own itself. 
Acknowledging the climate emergency and the responsibility as a Party to the Paris 
Agreement the Government of the DPRK has updated the NDC s which indicated GHG 
emission reduction by 16.4% on its own by 2030 and additionally increase emission 
reduction by 36% with international support . 
    Recognizing important role of the Secretariat of UNFCCC in dealing the climate 
emergency which is the main threats to present and next generations an d in coordinat ing 
regional and international cooperation for peace and green econom ic growth , I do hope that 
UNFCCC secretariat and all other international organizations would fulfill their 
responsibility in solving climate change issues at regional and global level. 
On this occasion, I would like to confirm that the DPR Korea will actively join in 
international efforts for global climate action . 
Thank you. 
 