more than 40 years ago, in 1979, experts from around the world 
met in Geneva at the first World Climate Conference. 
In that conference, climate change was recognized as a serious 
threat. In 1990, the IPCC published its first assessment report that 
highligh ted the global consequences of climate change. 
For decades, science has been sounding the alarm bell. During 
these decades, we have gained more knowledge. We know the 
risks.  
 
A lot has been done. The Paris Agreement was a historic milestone, 
and after that, many countries have set new climate goals. Finland 
belongs to the most ambitious: we aim to be carbon neutral by 
2035. 
 
But we have reached a point where we need to move beyond goals 
and pledges . Change may seem inconceivable but only until we act. 
Combatting climate change is one of our weightiest human 
responsibilities.  

Ensuring adequate climate finance is crucial. Finland is doing its 
part by almost doubling its climate f inance to developing countries. 
By co -chairing the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action, 
we also encourage the integration of climate action into national 
budgeting. Many truly impactful measures lie in this domain.  
 
As an arctic country, Finland is particularly concerned a bout the 
fast-warming Arctic region. Everyone else should be concerned too: 
if we lose the arctic, we lose the globe. In the Arctic, reducing black 
carbon and methane emissions is essential. 
 
No emission reduction measures will be enough, if we don’t take 
care of our carbon sinks. As the most forested country in Europe, 
Finland places great importance to sustainable use of forests. 
Every year, 150 million trees are planted in Finland. Globally, we 
need to strengthen efforts to halt forest loss. 

The original title of the 1979 World Climate Conference was ”A 
Conference of E xperts on Climate and Mankind”. Already more than 
40 years ago we knew that climate change is the result of the 
actions of mankind, and that it can determine the future of mankind. 
Now it is time to deliver on our pledges and shoulder our human 
responsibilities. 
 
 
 
 
 