Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I convey my thanks to Government of Morocco for their warm hospitality and
hosting the COP 22.

I take this opportunity to congratulate the world leaders and everyone
gathered here today in this enchanting city of Marrakech for reaching a very
important and historical milestone of Paris Agreement coming into force.

Our work is not complete yet. This is just the beginning of the journey we have
committed to embark upon for saving the only planet we have.

Mr. President, relations between India and Morocco go back to the 14th
century when the famous Moroccon traveler and writer, Ibn Batuta travelled
to India. Over the years, we have always enjoyed cordial relations, with
significant growth in our bilateral relations. I assure you of our continued
support for in making Marrakech a COP that enhances our determination and
moves us towards real outcome on the ground. 

Goin forward, we expect that the direction set by Paris Agreement will be
followed at COP-22 and all decisions would respect the spirit of common but
differentiated responsibility and respective capability set in the Agreement.

While taking final decisions, we need to ensure that NDCs are ‘nationally
determined’, country driven and comprehensive so as to include all pillars of
action including adaptation, mitigation and means of implementation.

Access to adequate and predictable climate finance, especially from Funds
under the Convention, in both pre 2020 and post 2020 period remains an
overriding concern for developing countries.

Mr. President,

Despite our serious resource constraints and developmental priorities, India
is undertaking ambitious adaptation and mitigation actions, by increasing
energy efficiency across sectors and making greater use of renewables, under
the able leadership of our Hon’ble Prime Minister.

India has already achieved about 45 GW of grid connected Renewable Energy
Capacity, about ten-fold increase in over a decade. Our airports are using solar
energy and will move towards becoming carbon neutral. We are working on
Greening of India's extensive Railway routes and Highways.

For all this, we are mobilizing domestic funds through various schemes including
a Cess of 6 US Dollar (INR 400) per tonne on Coal. We have set up a
National Adaptation Fund to help states implement their Action Plans. A
Citizen centric scheme named Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana has been
launched to provide free clean cooking gas connections to women below
poverty line. Another scheme called Ujala supports commercial adoption of
energy efficient LED bulbs.

Mr. President,

We have already initiated the process to develop Implementation Plan for our
NDCs in post 2020 period and are confident that we will be able to achieve our
goals.

However Mr. President, I am of the view that it is absolutely critical and
necessary that equal focus is given to Pre -2020 actions by developed
countries under Kyoto Protocol and that they provide effective Finance,
Technology Transfer and Capacity building support to developing countries.

Once, when asked for a message to humanity, Gandhiji said, "my life is my
message". Hence the life of Mahatma Gandhi, a life of simple living based on
minimum requirements is a role model for us. Scientific reports show that
increasing human demand on the Earth’s ecosystems will exceed its carrying
capacity by about 75 percent by 2020. Small changes in our everyday lives, by
moderating our lifestyles and encouraging sustainable consumption and
production patterns will contribute in a big way.

Finally, we must remember that while we all are gathered here to talk about
climate action, we need to consider the needs of most poor and vulnerable
population. It is extremely important that our actions are based on ‘Climate
Justice’ and protect the poor and vulnerable from climate change risks.

THANK YOU!

