Mr. President, Excellences and Colleagues 
It is with great pleasure that I address this High Level Segment of this 
Conference of the Parties . 
I am here in my capacity as the Minister with responsibility for Climate 
Change in the Government of Jamaica and on behalf of the Prime 
Minister , The Most Honourable Andrew Holness , ON, MP and the 
People of Jamaica .  
Our Prime Minister send s his greetings and he has asked me to also 
convey to the Government and P eople of Fiji, the full support of the 
Jamaican people as you rise to the challenge as the first Small Island 
Developing State to accede to the Presidency of the COP . We also offer 
our thanks to the Government and people of Germany and the City of 
Bonn fo r their excellent hospitality. 
 
Mr. President , climate change impacts each and every one of us, 
whether we are a large developed country or a small island developing 
state. This reality became greater focus of glob al attention over the 
recent past , with the impacts of devastating hurricanes in the  
Caribbean region, parts of the United States of America, Mexico and 
Central America. 
 
Having experienced the onslaught of severe weather events in the past, 
including storms, flood rains , and droughts, Jamaica empathizes with 
those that have been affected recently, particularly our neighbours in 
the Caribbean. The Government and P eople of Jamaica will therefore 
continue to lend our support, where possible, to assist in recovery 
efforts. 
 
Mr. President , Jamaica has had and continue to experience its fair 
share of impacts that have stymied our country’s growth and 
development.  
 
Hurricanes and tropical storms have retarded our efforts at achieving 
our sustainable development aspirations over the years . Only recently 
we suffered devastating floods from heavy rains, resulting in over J$4 
billion in damage and loss 
 
Mr. President , throughout the years , the Jamaican delegation has 
played an integral role in the successes of these conferences and 
negotiations . We will continue to advocate and reinforce the need to 
explore solutions that will build even greater resilience in Small Island 
Developing States while simultaneously creating opportunities that will 
assist countries to recover and rebuild their economies in the fastest 
possible time after impact .  
 
Recogniz ing the potential for irreversible and permanent loss due to 
climate change, the Jamaican delegation is advocating for increased 
efforts to address loss and damage due to climate change, in light of 
actions that are necessary due to the limits of adaptation. 
 
We are hopeful , that the negotiations on the issues relating to Loss and 
Damage in Developing Countries from the adverse effects of Climate 
Change will be better understood and articulated now that developed 
countries are themselves sharing similar experiences. 
 
We all agree that the Paris Agreement was a landmark event, but even 
more so , implementation of this A greement is now of paramount 
importance in building resilience through adaptation actions , which is 
a must for us, and securing low emissions development to ensure the 
global temperature goal of 1.5 degrees Celsius becomes a reality. 
 
Mr. President, it is clear that the availability of adequate financing 
options towards progressively increasing mitigation and adaption 
efforts is also a critical component towards achieving the articulated 
targets for P rties, particularly those of vulnerable small island 
developing states. 
 
In light of this, Jamaica supports endeavors aimed at mobilizing 
investment and climate resilient initiatives through a further 
simplification of approval procedures in the Financial Mechanism . 
 
Of course, as an island nation , Jamaica recognizes that resilience not 
only lies in using the capital available to undertake physical projects 
and program mes, but also in the ability of our people to develop their 
capacities to understand and ad opt new ideas and technologies. 
 
Mr. President, undoubtedly, it is with t he sharing of innovation s that 
Parties will be able to build a sustainable foundation to chart a course 
leading to carbon neutrality by 2050 and to achieving the aspiration of 
the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Develop ment Goals (SDGs) . 
 
Let us remember, climate change impacts each and every one of us, 
but unfortunately some more than others.  It is my greatest desire 
therefore that this meeting of Parties and dedicated stakeholders will 
achieve all that it sets out to achieve and more. 
I thank you. 