○ I would like to express my gratitude to Fiji for COP23 Presidency, as well 
as to Germany for hosting the conference. I think it is very significant for Fiji 
to assume presidency, representing island countries, which are vulnerable 
to the impact of climate change. I believe that the spirit of “Talanoa,” 
proposed by Fiji, is very important in integrating di fferent opinions. In order 
to have the implementation guidelines of the Paris Agreement adopted at 
COP24 next year, Japan is going to contribute to the advancement of 
negotiations during COP23 and fully support the effort of Fiji presidency for 
establishin g a basic design of the facilitative dialogue to be held next year. 

○ We are witnessing climate change accelerating in recent years. We must 
march forward together toward achieving the purpose of the Paris 
Agreement in order to cope with the threat of climate change. Japan, aiming 
at achieving significant emissions reduction, is going to take on the 
challenge of developing cutting -edge innovations ahead of t he world and 
contribute to the best of our ability to reducing the global greenhouse gas 
emissions. Through all these efforts, Japan will accomplish further economic 
growth and share our achievement with the rest of the world. 
 
○ Despite experiencing the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, Japan 
has continued to pursue ambitiously our 2020 target. On the occasion of 
COP21 in 2015, Prime Minister Abe announced an increase of financial 
assistance to developing countries from 1 trillion yen to about 1.3 trillion yen. 
We will steadily work to implement the pledged assistance. 
 
○ Japan has contributed 1.5 billion dollars to the Green Climate Fund as 
well as 2.5 million dollars every year to “the Climate and Clean Air Coalition 
to Reduce Short -Lived Climate Pollutant.” Utilizing the Joint Crediting 
Mechanism, which Japan has concluded with 17 countries, resulting in more 
than 100 projects so far, we are going to promote emissions reduction by 
disseminating our advanced low -carbon technologies, and implementa tion 
of countermeasures under the partnership with developing countries. Japan 
cooperated with Fiji, in holding the COP23 preparatory workshops in Asia -
Pacific region this year and is assisting Fiji in reconstructing schools through 
the grass -roots grant a id scheme. 
 
○ From the viewpoint of protecting healthy oceans, Japan is offering 
technical assistance to improve the capability to cope with climate change in 
island countries. Starting in 2015, in the Pacific island countries, including 
Fiji, Japan is ex tending its support for adaptation for coastal protection by 
utilizing ecosystem such as coral reefs and mangroves. 
 
○ In planning climate change countermeasures, scientific knowledge is very 
important. Scientists are indispensable players for the Par is Agreement. The 
role that IPCC has played through its work over the years is significant. 
IPCC, in its 49th general assembly in May 2019, is set to approve a report 
on methodology to estimate greenhouse gas emissions, which forms an 
indispensable step to wards the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
Japan would like to express our willingness to host this IPCC general 
assembly in our country. 
 
○ Science plays a very important role in assessing vulnerabilities to climate 
change. Through our collaboratio n among experts, research organizations, 
and the government with scientists at the center, Japan has integrated their 
knowledge and completed a report on the analysis of natural disasters 
caused by climate change and it’s impact on vulnerabilities in Asia -Pacific 
region. This outcome is used in various diplomatic fora including COP. 
 

○ Based upon the cabinet decision on the Plan for Global Warming 
Countermeasures in May last year, Japan is steadily impl ementing 
measures to achieve 26% reduction by 2030 under the Paris Agreement. At 
the same time, Japan intends to lead the international community so that 
major emitters will reduce their emissions in accordance with their 
capabilities under the fair and ef fective international framework participated 
by all the major countries based on the Paris Agreement. While reconciling 
global greenhouse countermeasures and economic growth, our country is 
going to aim at achieving the long -term goal of reducing greenhous e gas 
emissions by 80% by 2050. In the last 5 years, with the number of eco -cars 
doubled and solar power generation increasing more than 5 times, 
greenhouse gas emissions have been decreasing in Japan for two years in 
a row. 
 
○ Japan is going to promote innovations of science and technology. We will 
promote research and development and projects on manufacturing and 
transporting of energy carriers such as hydrogen, the future power 
electronics using gallium nitride, CCS and CCU. 
 
○ In collaboratio n with island countries, Japan is going to develop a new 
hazard map by utilizing satellite data to forecast flood areas affected by high 
waves caused by hurricanes. Japan is going to support countries suffering 
from malaria through disseminating the use of mosquito nets, which will 
prevent for a long time mosquitos from infiltrating. 
 

○ Two years have passed since the Paris Agreement. Many businesses, 
local governments and citizens in the world have substantially changed their 
mindset a nd the course of actions. Among those actors, there is a prevailing 
recognition that climate change measures are going to help us achieve “the 
sustainable development goals.” Japan will support ambitious programs 
carried out by local governments, businesses and others and their efforts to 
disseminate such programs. 

○ Improving transparency of information on climate change measures taken 
by each country provides driving force for implementing the Paris 
Agreement. Improvement of transparency will make it possible to visualize 
the status of programs implemented by all participants including 
governments, local governments, businesses and others and the potential of 
their technologies and know -how and their needs. This will promo te 
participation, investment and further cooperation by the private sector, which 
is expected to create co -innovation. 
 
○ To that end, Japan is going to establish “the Partnership to increase 
transparency for co -innovation (Visualization Partnership),” in which our 
country, developing countries and international organizations will participate. 
 
○ As part of that initiative, Japan is going to contribute 5 million dollars to 
“the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency”. In 2018, Japan plans to 
launch “GOSAT -2,” a satellite to observe the amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions worldwide. Japan will also establish “the Asia -Pacific Climate 
Change Adaptation Platform,” which provides the basis for information on 
climate change risks and adaptation measures. 
 

○ The Paris Agreement entered into force in such a short time as 1 year 
after the agreement was reached in COP21. Participating in this COP23 and 
personally observing many countries and stakeholders in the world 
energetically working together t oward steady implementation of the Paris 
Agreement, I have been so much encouraged. 
 
○ Japan promises to collaborate with the international community and 
commits to take a lead in challenging climate change, which is a threat to all 
of us and all of o ur future generations. 
 
○ I myself will make every possible effort to ensure that climate action will 
lead to new growth so that we can realize a sustainable society, which will 
provide us with quality life into the future, while solving socio -economic 
problems simultaneously. 
 