I would like to extend my deepest gratitude 
to His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin 
Zayed Al -Nahyan for the COP28 
Presidency . 
Today, nearly half of the Earth's 
population resides in regions highly 
vulnerable to climate change . 
Small Island Developing States , 
Landlocked Developing Countries , and 
Least Developed Countries are the most 
jeopardized . 
Ongoing geopolitical volatility and 
energy insecurity also make it more 
challenging to remain focused on the 
climate agenda. 
Kazakhstan fully supports the UN’s 
urgent call for tangible actions to safeguard 
our environment for future generations. 
 
We have ratified the Paris Agreement 
and adopted a Carbon Neutrality 
Strategy for 2060 . 
The resulting new Environmental 
Code of Kazakhstan will drive 
comprehensive adaptation of green 
technology in practically every sector of 
our national economy.  
There is extraordinary potential for 
wind and solar power in my country 
as well as for green hydrogen . We will 
continue to work closely with our partners 
to unlock it. 
As the world’s leading exporter of 
uranium, providing 43% of global supply , 
we are playing a crucial role in carbon -free 
electricity generation on a global scale. 
Indeed, a s the world decarbonizes in 
the coming decades, critical minerals – 
including Rare Earth Metals – will 
become indispensable. Kazakhstan is 
poised to become a major supplier of 
these transition minerals .  
 
We are also actively supporting private 
green initiatives . For example, Kazakhstan 
based The Plastic Association works on 
plastic waste free projects contributing to 
ecofriendly solutions . 
As a matter of principle and fairness , 
climate action should not require 
emerging economies to sacrifice national 
development and modernization . Instead, 
they m ust go hand in hand and 
reinforce each other . 
Bold steps are needed. 
Cutting methane emissions is the 
fastest opportunity we have to immediately 
slow the rate of global warming.  
That is why I am pleased to a nnounce 
that Kazakhstan has decided to join the 
Global Methane Pledge . 
At the same time, we are eager to 
tackle the enormous challenge of coal in 
our region by implement ing our region’s 
first ever Just Energy Transition 
Partnership (JETP) in Kazakhstan.  
 
For both of these to succeed , we look to 
our friends and partners for their concrete 
support. 
More widely, we look to the international 
community to scale up its commitment to 
greater meaningful climate finance.  
But finance is just the first hurdle. 
Even if we successfully limit global 
temperature rise to 1.5 degrees by 2050, 
Central Asian countries will still experience up 
to 2.5 degrees of temperature rise. This will 
lead to water scarcity, sever heat, 
desertification and extreme hydrological 
events. 
Adaptation is therefore both 
inevitable and imperative. 
For example, we urge that more 
resources be allocated to support the 
International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea 
– once the world's fourth largest body of 
inland water. Kazakhstan will assume 
chairmanship of the Fund next year and 
looks forward to engaging all partners on 
this issue . 
 
Moreover, we are pleased, together 
with France , to co-chair the first thematic 
One Water Summit on the margins of the 
next United Nations General Assembly. 
Building on the successful outcome of 
COP28 this week, I invite member states to 
the Astana International Forum in June 
2024. The Forum can serve as a dialogue 
platform to continue focused collaboration on 
these acute climate -related issues through 
COP29. 
To build a momentum on climate action 
in Central Asia, we have also decided to 
convene a Regional Climate Summit in 
Kazakhstan in 2026 under UN auspices. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen! 
 
The climate emergency is a global 
crisis that requires a global response. 
We share joint responsibility for 
preserving our planet and ensuring a 
sustainable future for all. 
Kazakhstan firmly believes that only 
through collective action and cooperation 
can we solve the climate crisis. 
Thank you. 