
1. As we convene here in Dubai, we must appreciate 
that the presence of almost 200 nations speaks 
volumes about the magnitude of this global event and 
what it s tands for. This gathering is a testament to the 
universal recognition that among the multitude of 
global challenges confronting us today, climate 
change stands out as, by far, the defining issue of our 
era. COP28 underscores our shared commitment to 
confro nt, with unwavering resolve, a challenge that 
transcends borders, impacts every facet of human 
existence and well -being, and demands a concerted 
global response as a matter of grave urgency. 
 
2. The reality before us is irrefutable: according to the 
latest UN data, unless there is a significant and radical 
shift in our economic and industrial patterns, we are 
hurtling at a perilous velocity on a trajectory towards 
the dire scenario of a world that is warmer by 3 
degrees Celsius. The evidence is alarming – in just the 
 first ten months of this year, we experienced 86 days 
where temperatures soared over 1.5°C above pre -
industrial levels. Adding to this worrying scenario is 
the fact that global greenhouse gas emissions have not 
decreased, but rather increased, by a deeply worrying 
1.2% between 2021 and 2022, culminating in a 
staggering 57.4 gigatonnes of CO2 equivalent – a 
record high that underscores the magnitude of the 
climate crisis we face. We must add that all the 
increases were experienced in the G20 countri es. 
 
3. This crisis must never be seen as a distant threat. It is 
here, now, indiscriminately devastating nations 
regardless of their size or wealth, thereby reshaping 
our world in profound, unprecedented and highly 
complicated ways. A stark illustration of t his 
disastrous turn of events is currently unfolding in 
Eastern Africa, where catastrophic flooding has swiftly 
followed the most severe drought the region has seen 
in over forty years. Scientific evidence clearly and 
strongly links these extreme weather e vents to 
human -induced climate change. Studies indicate that 
droughts are now at least 100 times more likely in 
parts of Africa than they were in the pre -industrial era.  
 This translates into a dramatic reduction in long -term 
rainfall, while short -term rain fall patterns remain 
erratic and unpredictable. 
 
4. All of us are already living in this dire reality. Kenya 
has been besieged by relentless torrents that have 
claimed lives and displaced countless communities. 
The ensuing injury, loss and damage extends beyond 
immense human toll, to the destruction of vital 
infrastructure and the disruption of critical supply 
chains across many vital sectors. Beyond mere 
logistical challenges, the devastation further 
complicates the daily struggle for survival for many 
households and communities. 
 
5. The situation in our Horn of Africa region, like in 
many other developing countries, lays bare the harsh 
reality of climate change. It is a poignant reminder of 
its disproportionate impact and a call to action for all 
of us to mo bilize rapidly to address this imbalance 
with urgency, solidarity, and inclusivity. 

 6. We are also here because we are convinced of our 
collective ability to effect change. Our mission for this 
COP is clear: to foster radical cooperation that steers 
the world firmly back onto a 1.5 -degree Celsius 
ceiling. Equally critically, we are here to a ffirm our 
commitment to provide robust support to those of us 
who have contributed least to climate change, yet 
bear its most catastrophic impacts. 
 
7. As Africa, we are ready to play our part in full. The 
Nairobi Declaration which we adopted at the 
conclusi on of the first Africa Climate Summit sets out 
the vision and a pathway for Africa to be a vital part 
of the global solution to the existential climate 
challenge we face. The Declaration captures the 
consensus of the African government leaders for 
Climate Positive Growth that harnesses our ample 
human and natural resources. It commits us to triple 
renewable energy capacity, establish green 
manufacturing, halt and reverse deforestation, 
promote sustainable agriculture, promote nature -
based solutions, support the global call to phase 
down coal plants and eliminate inefficient fossil fuel 
production subsidies and further amplify calls for a 
 new global financial architecture and global carbon 
tax. 
 
8. In Kenya, we have transformed this vision into 
tangible goals. Our plan is ambitious: to expand our 
current energy capacity of approximately 3 Gigawatts 
to 100 Gigawatts of entirely renewable power by 
2050, as a cornerstone of our green industrial 
strategy. 
 
9. This level of ambition must be matched by the global 
commitm ent to achieve concrete, action -oriented 
outcomes. The first Global Stocktake (GST) at this 
COP is not just a checkpoint; it is a crucial step 
forward in our collective response to climate change. 
It must therefore encompass strategies for mitigation, 
adaptation, addressing loss and damage, and 
fundamentally, the means of its implementation. Such 
a comprehensive approach will pave the way for a 
more inclusive and robust set of Nationally 
Determined Contributions (NDCs) in the next cycle. 
 
10. At the heart of ou r discussions at this COP28 must 
be a package of ambitious energy transition and 
 investment goals and incentives, aligned with our 
commitment to maintaining global temperatures 
within a 1.5ºC limit. This entails a pledge to triple 
renewable energy capacity , and double energy 
efficiency by 2030, alongside a significant reduction 
in fossil fuel dependency. I commend the COP 
Presidency for their efforts to converge the world 
around this global goal. The strong participation of 
traditional hydrocarbon energy le aders in this global 
endeavour has transformed the conversation and 
brought us closer to consensus based on democratic 
inclusion and the best spirit of collective action, as 
well as multilateralism. 
 
11. Notably, the vision demands deliberate support for 
devel oping countries. In the past two decades, only 2 
percent of the three trillion dollars invested globally 
in renewable energy has reached Africa, despite the 
continent's vast resource endowment and great need 
for investment. The consequences of this investm ent 
gap are starkly evident: more than 600 million 
Africans are deprived of basic energy services, which 
are fundamental to dignified living and access to 
essential services such as healthcare and education. 
 The challenge is compounded by the fact that nea rly 
1 billion people in Africa do not have access to clean 
cooking amenities. 
 
12. A tendency to ignore Africa's developmental and 
industrialization needs, and the failure to invest in our 
burgeoning younger generation, is no longer a 
tenable proposition. We cannot afford to neglect the 
immense potential or ignore the pressing needs of a 
continent on the cusp of transformative growth. 
Turning Africa into a green powerhouse is not just 
essential for the continent, it is also vital for global 
industrial decarbon ization. 
 
13. Going forward, clear, actionable roadmaps for 
implementation are required. In turn, this calls for a 
unified global effort to mobilise the necessary capital 
for both development and climate action. To echo 
the consensus projected at the Paris Summit, we must 
establish a New Global Financing Pact, which ensures 
that no country is ever forced to choose between its 
development aspirations a nd necessary climate 
action. Fundamentally, this is a call for an integrated 
approach where economic growth and 
 environmental sustainability are not mutually 
exclusive but are pursued in tandem for the greater 
global good. 
 
14. The urgency and magnitude of our task calls for far 
greater transformation than the incremental progress 
we have seen over the past 30 years. We need to 
execute quantum leaps in terms of both our strategic 
actions and technological innovations. What lies at 
stake is more than just a clim ate issue; it is a matter of 
guaranteeing dignified living and livelihoods for 
billions who lack basic necessities. Our response must 
match the scale of this global challenge with boldness 
and innovation. 
 
15. Given this context, the longstanding adversarial 
dynamic between the global North and South proves 
particularly counterproductive. This division has 
hindered our ability to unite and leverage our 
collective strengths and robbed us of tremendous 
opportunities. Yet, in the face of a threat that 
endangers t he health of our planet and our very 
existence, we must find in collective action a force 
that neutralises and transcends these divisions. 
 Climate change does not respect artificial distinctions, 
traditional boundaries and old antagonisms. Instead, 
it shou ld unite us against a shared, borderless 
challenge. 
 
16. Consequently, our approach must be collaborative, 
inclusive, and anchored in justice. This means making 
decisions that prioritize the well -being of every 
person, while acknowledging that climate action i s 
inextricably linked to social justice and equity. 
 
17. In this room, we have the power, the means and, 
most of all, the responsibility to act. The world is 
watching and what we deliver at COP28 will be a 
testament of whether we are capable guardians of this 
planet and competent stewards of its sustainability. 
COP28 and the Global Stock -Take are elements of a 
strong and clear call to conscience on behalf of the 
global community. Let us not be satisfied with 
another minimal increment, but rather, let us make 
this COP a turning point towards a just, equal world 
of opportunity, safe from the looming threat of a 
climate disaster. 
I thank you. 
 