At the outset , pleas e allow me on behalf of the delegation of the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic to extend our sincere congratulation and deep appreciation 
to the Government and people of the Kingdom of Morocco for the excellent 
arrangements made fo r this significant COP22 and for the warm hospitality 
extended to us since our a rrival to this beautiful city of Marrakesh. 
 
My delegation would like to wholeheartedly welcom e the entry into force of the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change on 4 November 2016 , just less than one year 
after its adoption i n Paris . This is indeed a testimony of members of th e 
international community to join hands together to tackle climate change. We 
believe that any further delay in taking strong action to tackle climate change will 
only lead to greater adverse impacts on our people and planet . 
 
Mr. President, 
 
The Lao PDR, a mountainous, least developed and landlocked developing 
country , has been exposed to more frequent, broader and severe natural disasters. 
The country is highly vulnerable to impact of climate change due to its low 
adaptive capacity and limited resources . 
 
 Having fully recognize d that climate change poses challenges to the sustainable 
development of our country and to the livelihood of our people , the Lao 
Government ratified the Paris Agreement and submitted i ts instrum ent of 
ratification to Secretary General Ban Ki -moon during his participation in the 8th 
ASEAN -United Nations Summit in Vientiane on 7 September this year . 
 
In this regard, I would like to reaffirm the Lao PDR’s commitment to pursu e 
practical policy and concrete action for the implementa tion of the Paris 
Agreement , including our National ly Deter mined Contributions while 
mainstream ing climate change and natural d isasters r isk r eduction and 
management along with th e Sustainable Development Goals into our National 
Socio -Economic Development Plans. Besides, the Lao Gove rnment has been 
implementing the N ational S trategy on Climate C hange through its action plans 
for the period 2013 -2020 which define mitigation and adaptation actions in such 
sectors as agriculture, forestry, water resources, energy, transportation, industry 
and public health. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
At the regional level, the Lao PDR has been working closely with other ASEAN 
Member States in addressing c limate change issue.  At the recently concluded 
28th and 29th ASEAN Summits held in September in Vientiane, Lao PDR , 
ASEAN Leaders issue d the ASEAN Joint Statement on Climate Change to t he 
22nd Conf erence of the Parties (COP -22) to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC ) which highlight ed ASEAN 
Member s’ commit ment to strengthen the management of ASEAN’s diverse 
ecosystems and landscapes through a landscape -based approach to build climate 
resilience and enhance the ASEAN rapid response capacity to be more efficient 
and effective in the event of natural disasters . They urge Parties to the UNFCCC 
to enhance ambition on adaptation, mitigation, finance, technology development 
and transfer, capacity building and transparency of actions and support . 
 
Let me con clude by express ing our heartfelt appreciation to the development 
partners for their continued support and assistance to strengthen the mitigation 
and adaptation capacity in my country . We stand ready to continue working 
closely with the international community in implemen ting the Paris Agreement. 
 
I thank you for your attention. 