Let me start by thank ing the United Arab Emirates for its enormous efforts in 
the run-up to this Summit and for hosting COP28 in Dubai. The presence of so 
many States on the highest -possible level is a positive indication for two things: 
• First, of our common belief in multilateral ism and the importance of a 
rules -based global order. 
• Second, of the growing urgency of combating climate change.  
 
The world is currently facing a multitude of overlapping crises . Many of these 
tend to draw us away from seeing the things that connect us and rather let us 
focus on what divides us. More worryingly, these crises entail the potential of 
losing sight of the biggest challenge : to limit global warming to a level that as-
sures the continued wellbeing of future generations . 
 
The accelerating impacts of global warming are evident across the globe . We 
are off track and urgent action is necessary in order to adjust our course.  
 
For Liechtenstein , this COP can only be a success with the adoption of concrete, 
ambitious and robust outcome s at the first Global Stocktake . These outcomes 
must be firmly based on the latest scientific evidence . The IPCC has provided us 
with a roadmap for future emissions reductions . In a phase with increasing de-
mand s from the business world for unbureaucratic and targeted climate regula-
tion we should also ensure the best possible framework conditions in order to 
 unleash the often underestimated power of the economy to combat climate 
change.  
 
The results of the negotiations here in Dubai are only achievable if matched by 
domestic ambition. Liechtenstein has set itself the target to become climate 
neutral by 2050 and has increase d its emissions reduction target for 2030 from 
40 to 55 percent, compared to 1990 levels . These efforts are matched by a 
growing number of domestic businesses , continuously stepping up measures to 
reduce their environmental footprint. 
 
 
Liechtenstein is ready to engage in candid negotiations and to support the 
Presidency in this effort . All parties should face the next two weeks with a spirit 
of finding common ground . Only the combination of bold domestic and multi-
lateral efforts will enable us to keep the goals of the Paris Agreement alive . 
 
Thank you! 