
Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I would like to welcome the United Kingdom government as the new 
COP -26 Presiden cy and for the arrangements and hospitality extended 
during this conf erence in Glasgow . 
 
Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
Taking into account the serious impact of global warming and the 
unprecedented challenges due to the COVID -19 pandemic, Malaysia 
recognises the urgency to build back better through green recovery . 
 
In this regard, Malaysia ha d communicated its updated NDC to reduce 
its economy -wide carbon intensit y (against GDP) of 45% in 2030 
compared to 2005 level. The 45% of carbon intensity reduction target 
is unconditional and is an increase of 10% from the earlier submission. 
In addition, Malaysia’s NDC covers 7 GHG instead of 3 GHG 
previously. 
 
Malaysia also aspires to achieve net -zero GHG emission target earliest 
by 2050, pending the completion of its Long -Term Low Emissions 
Development Strategy by 2022. 
 
To achieve these ambitious target s, Malaysia will be putting forward 
several measures such as: 
 
1. implementation of carbon pricing policy in phases to support 
national efforts to reduce GHG emissions ; 
 
2. achieve ment of 31% of renewable energy capacity for power 
generation in 2025 and 40% in 2035 in national power grid 
through its Malaysia’s Energy Transition Plan to 2021 - 2040; 
 
3. aspiration for 100% of government fleets to be non -internal 
combustion engine (ICE) vehicles by 2030; 
 
4. maintain ing at least 50% forest cover as pledged during the 
Rio Earth Summit 1992 ; 
 
5. implementing natural -based solutions as a basis to reduce 
long-term impacts through planting of a 100 million trees; 
 
6. moving towards Zero Waste directed to landfill through the 
Waste to Energy concept and to increase its recycling rate 
target to 40% by 2025; 
 
7. transform ing cities in Malaysia towards low carbon pathway 
as outlined under the National Low Carbon City Masterplan ; 
and 
 
8. increas ing long-term resilience towards climate change 
impacts through the development of the National Adaptation 
Plan. 
 
 
 In addition, two of our largest energy companies in Malaysia have rolled 
out their plans to achieve net -zero emissions target by 2050. 
 
I am also glad to announce that the Malaysia n government ha s agreed to 
support the Global Methane Pledge as well as the Glasgow Leaders 
Declaration on Forests and Land Use. 
 
Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
Malaysia looks forward to the completion of the Paris Rulebook during 
COP26 to stay on track to achieve the 1.5 degrees Celsius goal. There 
needs to be a clear modality for NDC implementation and establishment 
of cooperative arrangements. This should take into account 
environmental integrity and robust accounting. In this regard, Malaysia is 
willing to work with all parties to ensure the success of COP 26. 
 
However, to implement the Paris Rulebook , it will require additional 
finance , technology transfer and capacity building for developing 
countries. In this regard, Malaysia urges developed countries to fulfil their 
obligations under the Paris Agreement . 
 
Lastly, thank you again and congratulations to the Government of United 
Kingdom for hosting this conference.  
 
Thank you.  
 
 