Excellencies, 
 
The need to limit the rising global temperature below 
1.5 degrees celsius and reach carbon neutrality by 
2050 is no longer a desirable objective. It is a critical 
imperative if we want to avoid a major catastrophe 
and hopefully put back our planet on a sustainable 
course. 
 
For small island countries like Mauritius , global 
warming and rising sea levels represent an 
existential challenge wh ich will cause tremendous 
damage and lead to massive displacement of people 
especially from low lying islands. 
Concrete action accompanied by adequate and 
predictable funding is , therefore , absolutely essential. 
 
We all have a responsibility to address thi s 
challenge and Mauritius is prepared to do its share. 
 
We, therefore , commit to take actions that will 
contribute towards the following : 
1. Reducing gas emissions by 40 per cent by 
2030; 
 
2. Achieving 60 per cent of green energy in our 
energy mix by 20 30; 
 
3. Phasing out coal in electricity generation 
before 2030; 
 
4. Promoting a circular economy involving 
70 per cent of waste from landfills by 2030 ; 
 
5. Encouraging the use of electric vehicles ; and 
 
6. Promoting smart agriculture and island wide 
tree planting programmes . 
 These actions , along with several others , will pave 
the way for Mauritius to becom e a climate resilient 
and low emission country. 
 
At the same time, we expect our partners to do their 
share and ensure that the Glasgow package focuses 
on: 
1. Enhanced action on adaptation, includi ng 
financing for adaptation; 
 
2. Addressing loss and d amage caused by 
climate change; 
 
3. Narrowing the emission s gap with new targets 
for 2030; 
 
4. Fulfilling the $100 billion a year finance 
commitment and ensuring simplified access to 
these funding by SIDS, and other vulnerable 
countries ; and 
 
5. Adaptation and mitigation. 
These actions constitute the basic elements of a 
comprehensive and global strategy to address this 
challenge. More particularly , they will represent 
restorative justice for the most vulnerable countries. 
 
As leaders we have a huge responsibility towards 
our people and posterity. We have no right to fail 
them. 
 
