Excellencies,
Distinguished Delegates
Guten Tag,
Allow me to begin congratulating my Pacific brother, Prime Minister Bainimarama,
for assuming the Presidency of COP23. Let me assure you of my delegation’s
full support as you lead us through these critical climate talks.
Let me also convey appreciation to the Government of Germany for its support in
convening COP23 in this historical city of Bonn.
Mr. President,
This is the fourth year in a row that I have attended the Conference of Parties. I
am not sure there are many other Heads of State that could say the same. I
share this because it highlights just how seriously my government takes the issue
of climate change. That is also why Nauru was among the first countries in the
world to ratify the Paris Agreement, and it is why we have made implementation
of our NDCs our top priority.
Developing countries demonstrated tremendous leadership and ambition in their
contributions, and it is now time for developed countries to live up to their side of
the bargain. This must begin with more ambitious commitments to reduce their
emissions, and in this regard I would like to recognize our neighbor to the south -
New Zealand - whose newly elected Prime Minister the Honorable Jacinda Adern,
promising to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.
In addition, we must see greater attention given to the means of implementation,
starting with the expanded use of direct access modalities for financial support.
Nauru is ready to lead the renewable energy revolution, but we, like most
developing countries cannot do it alone.
Lack of ambition is not the problem. Political will is not the problem. Lack of
resources is the problem.

Regrettably, my government also feels obliged to attend this conference at the
highest levels to remind the world of the threat we face. While the Paris
Agreement was a historic diplomatic achievement, we must remember that we
are not on track to achieve its central goal of stopping warming below 1.5
degrees. Far from it.
Failure would be devastating for small islands, though we should not pretend that
any additional warming is safe. And this year of record breaking hurricanes and
forest fires has made it clear that no country is immune. In this regard, we
reiterate our call for scaled up financing for both the Executive Committee of the
Warsaw International Mechanism as well as for the implementation of action to
implement Loss and Damage at the regional and national levels.
Mr. President
We face some daunting challenges over the next century: providing food and
freshwater for 9 billion people, protecting millions displaced by storms and
ecosystem collapse, and avoiding a proliferation of failed states in the process.
These are challenges that do not respect political borders drawn on a map. They
are too big for any one nation to manage alone, and therefore will require
unprecedented level of international cooperation – something we just don’t seem
very good at these days.
Indeed, climate change will be the defining security challenge of the century, and
we are simply not prepared for life on a hotter planet. For this reason, Nauru
supports the proposal by the Pacific SIDS to appoint a UN Special
Representative on Climate and Security, whose work must begin with an
assessment of the United Nation’s capacity to respond to climate emergencies.
Moreover, we should remember that climate change is not happening in isolation.
It is hitting us at a time when the rules of the global economy have already left us
more vulnerable to these shocks. Saddled with debt and highly dependent on
the most basic goods, we are trapped with few options to escape. It is these twin
failures in economic and environmental governance that have created such a
dangerous and irreversible situations for many countries – including my own.
Mr. President,
While we work to avert the worst impacts of climate change here in Bonn, we
must also be fighting for a fair and more just world in all fora, even those in which
the smallest among us might not be represented. That would demonstrate real
leadership.
Vielen dank!
