
Madam President, 
Excellences, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
 
At the outset, I congratulate the Presidency of COP 28 for hosting this Conference and thank 
the Government of the UAE for extending warm hospitality to my delegation. 
Madam President,  
I bring the message of 30 million Nepali peo ple to this Conference. 
Our message is clear: mountains are tortured by rising temperatures. 
Save them first! 
I am deeply concerned about the findings of the recent IPCC report, that states climate -induced 
disasters breaking records in the Himalayas. 
We ha ve already lost one -third of our glaciers, and scientists have warned that we are going to 
lose another one -third by the end of this century. 
This is a wake -up call to all of us. 
The Himalayas are the foundations of human civilizations, ecosystems, and bio diversity. 
They are providing global services to the people and the planet and are the source of livelihood 
for billions of people downstream. 
Madam President,  
Nepal is bearing a direct, disproportionate, and damaging effect of climate change despite near 
zero contribution to global emissions. 
Due to an appalling injustice inflicted on us, our people are severely affected by climate -
induced disasters such as landslides, floods, wildfires, glacier lake outbursts, drought, etc. 
This is an utter injustice. Th is must stop now. 
In his opening remarks yesterday, the UN Secretary -General said, and I quote, “Just days ago, I 
was on the melting ice of Antarctica. Not long ago, I was among the melting glaciers of Nepal. 
These two spots are far in distan ce but 
united in crisis" unquote. 
Similarly, in his recent visit to Nepal, he said further, and I quote, ‘stop war against the 
nature’, unquote. This was his reaction after having witnessed the disastrous impacts of climate 
change in the mountains. 
Indeed, it is a war against nature as well as humanity. We are waging war with ourselves and 
the future generations only to satisfy our short -sighted and self -serving interests. 
So, I stand here for climate justice for my innocent people who are sheer victims of this 
cata strophe. 
Madam President, 
Recently, I unveiled the National Adaptation Plan and NDC implementation guidelines with a 
clear roadmap and strategies. 
Nepal is fully committed to the Paris Agreement. We are committed to achieving a net zero 
greenhouse gas emis sion by 2045, five years earlier than the global target. 
We will fully utilize our hydropower potentials to secure clean energy and maintain 45 percent 
forest covered land. 
However, our attempts to implement climate change adaptation and mitigation plans a re facing 
serious financial and technological gaps. 
Madam President,  
LDCs are more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and are in desperate need of 
financial and technological support. 
As the chair of LDCs, I urge the developed economies and inter national community for more 
predictable adequate, and equitable resources and technologies for LDCs. 
Countries like Nepal are left behind to live on their own fate. Therefore, I want to reiterate the 
following points: 
▪ Developed countries’ pledges and actio ns do n ot correspond with each other. They must 
raise their ambitions and fulfill their commitments urgently. 
▪ They must scale up climate finance to make up for the US $100 billion shortfall and double 
the adaptation finance by 2025, and ensure fair financi al arrangements without conditions, 
constraints, and compliances. 
▪ We demand grants as our justice to address this crisis. 
▪ The Loss and Damage Fund must be predictable, simplified, and adequate for LDCs and 
mountainous countries. 
▪ The GST report must give a clear roadmap to all, and we must act in solidarity with urgency. 
▪ Finally, I strongly recommend the necessity of initiating a dialogue on mountain and climate 
change to realize the suffering of the mountainous communities and find workable solutions 
to bri ng them out of trouble. 
 
I wish you a grand success of this Conference. 
Thank You for your attention. 
 