Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
• At the outset, allow me to thank the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the 
hosting COP 27 in Sharm el -Sheik h and chairing this high -level segment . 
• I would like to start my intervention by recalling that t his summer General Assembly of 
United Nations recognized a clean, healthy, and sustainable environment as a fundamental 
human right . 
• From now on, this human right is next to all other human rights and I am sure you all will 
agree with those who calls it “a victory for people and planet”. 
• In the period of COP 27 have been discussed the perspective s of the path made for Glasgow 
COP26 commitments, how to concentrate more efforts to reach 1.5 °C target in line with 
the Paris Agreement , move forward with climate adaptation and mitigation instruments to 
tackle climate issues. 
• Unfortunately, if last year we t alked about pandemic as a major worldwide crisis , today we 
are facing even deepe r crisis, a crisis of humanity with one more war in the world , which 
adds more painful and irreversible consequences.  
• However, at the same time, we became convinced of the strength of joint actions to 
withstand the violence and various aftereffects . 
• Recovery after the pandemic as well as dealing with multi -layer crisis caused by the war 
force us to look for simultaneous solutions - both immediate and long -term actions, to 
assess the perspective of sustainability. 
 
• I believe that no need to remind or to convince people in this room, that b y ratifying the 
Paris Agreement countries drew certain commitments , first of all by setting the National 
Determined Contributions. 
• Moldova was one of the first countries in the world which announced much more ambitious 
updated NDCs in 2020. Moldova’ s target is to reduce its GHG emissions by 70% below its 1990 level
in 2030, which could be further increased to 88%, if additional financial support , technical 
cooperation are ensured. 
• I would like to highlight that Moldova puts all efforts to achieve updated NDCs together 
with strong support of the EU climate neutrality policy. 
• Among the priorities of Moldova - extension of forest areas, diversification of energy 
market by reducing the use of fossil fuels and harnessing a potential of solar, wind and 
biomass energy, enabling other low carbon technologies and enhancing circularity together 
with all other actions related to the g reening of economy. 
• In the face of the energy crisis, we are looking for possibilities to promote renewable 
energy, move on towards de carbonisation of the economy. In December 2021 Moldova has 
approved new capacity limits under the renewable energy sources support mechanism valid 
until 2025. If all the allocated capacities will be capitalized, the share of electricity from 
renewable energy sources will increase from 4% to 30% . 
• Additionally, this summer, due to a high interest from household and S&M enterprises , 
Moldova doubled the allocated capacities for energy prosumers, from 5% (35 MW) up to 
10% (70 MW), this comes after a series of measures were taken in order to reduce 
bureaucracy for installation of photovoltaic systems for prosumers. 
• At the same time we ac knowledge, that energy security must not be addressed by 
compromising the climate issues . 
• At nowadays , when it is essential to define sustainable decisions and actions to deal with 
consequences of various crisis and climate issues , to ensure economic development, 
people's well -being and protection of environment, the matrix of new economic 
development is - decoupling economic growth from environmental degradation, ensuring 
climate friendly production and consumption models. 
 
• It is paramount to agree on climate resilience, adaptation and mitigation actions at national, 
regional and global levels together with effective collaboration and support framework as 
far as countries have different capacities and vulnerability levels to address the difficulties. 
We depend on each other. 
 
• Indeed, w e all know what the seasick swings for economies are disa sters caused by climate 
change - droughts and floods - and what a dange r it cause for wellbeing of people and 
nature. Moldova record s such disasters more than 30 year with the most severe outcomes 
from the last decade . 
 
Excellencies, 
• Indeed, there is no doubt that actions and input of each country matters, not only on a 
national level , but also regionally and globally. After all, there is not much left until 2030, 
when we all come to the evaluation what has been done for Agenda 2030. 
 • Here, I would like to come back to what I mentioned at the beginning - the importance of 
joint actions to ensure that nobody and nothing is left behind.  
• Moreover , I am more than sure that today doing „little by little“ becomes a luxury. 
 
• We all know the cost of inaction and count it in the hundreds of millions lost to our 
economies, not to mention the loss of biodiversity , water scarcity, food quality and other 
disasters as well as human security. 
• I would like to underline the need for an action -oriented approach, to enhancing early 
warning investments for timely response and effective risk management to protect our 
communities and environment , to develop inventory GHG emissions, as well as to address 
‘loss and damage’ for climate justice in our discussions, together with capacity building, 
technical and finan cial support in order to reach our common goal 
And finally, last but not least, we are here today to ensure a new human right, to define actions and 
prevent the irreversible consequences not only for ourselves, but also for future generations, what 
they will inherit from us, how they will live . Thank you! 