
Mr. President , 
Your Excellency Ms. Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, 
 
Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
The unprecedented early entry into force of the Paris Agreement is a clear 
testament to the aspirations and support for the new era of climate action . 
This transition toward low -carbon society is irreversible, a clear calling for all 
of us, and the only way forward. 
 
Korea is also in the midst of high aspiration s for change. 
 
The new Korean Administration, born of the candlelight revolution by its 
people , declared its vision of “people -centered economy .” This vision 
includes consideration for the present and future generation s, and this is the 
reason we are taking the path toward green economy and sustainable 
development. 
 
As you may be aware, in less than half a century, Korea achieved 
industrialization and is now a full -fledged democracy. Now in this era of 
climate change, Korea is on a new mission: To transition into a lo w-carbon 
society as a model for the world , so that climate change no longer remains a 
threat, but an opportunity to leap forward. 
 2 Mr. President , 
 
The mission has already begun . Korea is in the process of re-inventing its 
climate and energy policies. Recognizing that 87% of Korea’s greenhouse gas 
emissions come from the energy sector, we are making transition toward 
cleaner and safer energy system . This includes an early shutdown of old coal -
fired power plants, boosting the share of renewables to 20% by 2030, and 
gradual move away from nuclear power . 
 
In addition, we will take full advantage of our nation wide emissions trading 
scheme . It is the first of its kind to be established in Asia, and this will help us 
regulate more than two thirds of our national greenhouse gas emissions . 
 
All these diver se efforts will be put together into our 2030 roadmap in coming 
years, as our solemn pledge to fulfill our emissions reduction target. 
 
Moreover, Korea is placing greater efforts on adaptation measures, as they 
directly affect people’s livelihoods. We are currently in the process of 
implementing our second national adaptation plan against ever -increasing 
risks and disasters from floods, droughts, and typhoons that are exacerbated 
by climate change. This plan mainly aims to prevent any climate change -
related damage s to the most vulnerable populations . 
 
Excellencies , distinguished delegates, 
 
The new climate regi me based on the Paris Agreement should be a platform 
to encourage individual countries to participate in this global endeavor . That 
is why it is important to increase transparency on all the climate actions and 
to respect the diversity of NDCs prepared according to each country’s 
respective capacity and circumstances. 3 This I believe is the “Bula Spirit”
 and the heart of “Talanoa Dialogue” – no 
finger -pointing, but a spirit of embrace and understand ing. 
 
Korea will also fully engage in preparing and adopti ng the Paris Agreement 
rulebook that is based on mutual trust. 
 
Once again, I reassure y ou that Korea is strongly determined to implement the 
Paris Agreement, and the people of Korea will also do our part to fulfill our 
commitments. 
 
Thank you. 