Check against delivery

Minister of. Environment, Water and Forests,
Head Of the delegation of Romania
Marrakech, 16 November 2016

Mr. President, Excellences,

Ladies and &entlemen,


of the rulebook and the implementation of our commitments.

Therefore, I would like to make an appeal to all of you to maintain the
“Spirit of Paris” and continue showing the same determination in order
to agree all elements that are necessary to operationalize the Paris

Agreement.

Achieving our long term temperature goals will require the
participation of the entire society: the business and financial sectors,

the civil society and most importantly all our citizens.

In order to build mutual trust and confidence and to promote effective
implementation of commitments under the Paris Agreement we need a
robust transparency framework. We need to be able to understand and
assess the progress we are making towards achieving our goals and

also help ourselves in designing better policies at home.
Ladies and gentlemen,

The implementation of our commitments is crucial in order to
maintain the credibility of the Paris Agreement. We need to jumpstart
the implementation of the contributions and ensure that the full

potential of the INDCs is unlocked.

Romania considers that the global goals we agreed in Paris could only
be achieved by international cooperation and initiatives to increase

climate resilience. Building low-carbon economies and stimulating

aiming to ensure prosperity and preserving the balance of the planet,

are also crucial for the next decade,

Romania is fully committed to do its share, as it is enshrined in the EU
and its Member States INDC —a binding, economy-wide emissions

reduction target of at least 40% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels.

In this respect, Romania has adopted a 2030 Climate change and low
carbon economy Strategy and Plan with clear landmarks, objectives
and forefront opportunities to address climate change challenges and

build up sustainable development pathways.

Also, we are implementing targeted programs to stimulate electro-

mobility, renewable energy and increase energy efficiency.
Ladies and gentlemen,

Romania is aware that the least developed and most vulnerable
countries need our Support and solidarity to address their domestic

climate challenges, as well as to fulfill their commitments.

Therefore, I would like to conclude by mentioning that this year,
Romania made a contribution to the Green Climate Fund, and we

intend to continue rendering our support in the future years.

I would like to conclude by making an appeal to all of you to keep the
momentum and continue showing the same determination in order to
agree all elements that are necessary to operationalize the Paris
Agreement, as well as to Start shifting our efforts towards the

implementation of our commitments.

Thank you.


