Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We are all aware that current global emissions reductions fall short of the goal of the Paris Agreement. Climate change is intensifying and its effects as well.
We are facing day by day greater and more complex challenges, but our focus on the environment must be maintained. We need to enhance our climate ambition and swiftly accelerate the implementation of climate commitments already taken.
Romania has some of the lowest emissions per capita in the European Union and holds a firm commitment to accelerate mitigation measures. We aim at reducing our emissions with roughly 80% from 1990 levels by 2030 and move afterwards at a fast pace towards climate neutrality.
Romania’s national energy mix will consist of 86% renewable energy by 2050, at the latest, completed by low-carbon energy, such as nuclear.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We have to also acknowledge the synergies between climate action, education and developing green skills.
For example, the REPowerEU programme brings nationally two billion euros in investments for renewable energy and green skills development.
The vast majority of Romanian youth finds learning about climate change in school essential to their engagement in climate action. Therefore, climate and environmental education is becoming more and more important in the Romanian school curriculum.
Excellencies,
Climate action is an important pillar of our diplomatic engagement with regional and global partners.
Climate education, biodiversity protection, climate resilient food production and low-carbon energy generation are at the core of the Romanian climate diplomacy. We are keen on advancing projects on these areas with like-minded partners.
Romania is also very engaged with global partners, including from Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America, to facilitate training and know-how sharing on managing emergency situations and implementing early warning systems. These areas are growing in importance in the context of the devastating effects of climate change.
I will conclude my intervention with a call to ambitious engagement and to action for our planet and for the well-being of all our citizens, present and future generations!
Thank you!