Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
The times we live in are the most challenging in a generation. We face a 
war on the European continent with global effects, energy insecurity, food 
shortages and economic instability. These should not divert our attention from 
climate change. On the contrary, delivering on climate is key to addressing many 
of these challenges and safeguarding the well -being of present and future 
generations. 
Climate change is not an abstract concept, but a daily reality, with 
consequences on human health, nature and the economy. My country, Romania, 
experienced this year severe drought with negative implications regarding access 
to wate r, food production and power generation. Therefore, adaptation efforts are 
crucial to increasing the resilience of societies and ecosystems facing climate 
risks. 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
Romania fully supports the EU leadership on climate change and our joi nt 
commitment to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions. We must ensure an orderly 
green transition with multiple benefits: investments in research -development -
innovation, development of the green economy and job creation. 
Furthermore, energy access at affor dable prices can be secured through 
investments in low -carbon energy, resilient networks and adequate regulation for 
renewables. The costs of climate inaction exceed by far the costs of action. Climate 
change generates economic and non -economic loss and d amage across the world.  
Fellow leaders, 
Our strongest allies in the fight against climate change are our citizens. We 
need to prepare and empower them for this battle. 
The youth in Romania is very motivated to act on climate change and this 
dedication s hould serve as inspiration to all of us. 
I strongly believe in the power of education to generate climate -friendly 
behaviour. Education and research systems need to be better aligned with climate 
goals and equip our citizens, particularly our youth, with the skills needed in a 
low-carbon economy and society. 
I look forward to a comprehensive COP27 outcome . Let me conclude by 
kindly inviting you to work together on this, with dedication and determination! 
 