
1. Mr. President . 
 
2. Excellencies and distinguished colleagues. 
 
3. This past year has been the most challenging period in St. Vincent and 
the Grenadines’ post-colonial history . We continue to grapple with the 
challenges precipitated by the COVID -19 pandemic, the devastation 
caused by the explosive eruption of the La Soufriere Volcano, and 
severe floods and landslides due to more extreme weather 
phenomena. These challenges underscore our intrinsic vul nerabilities 
and threaten our very existence. 
 
4. Mr. President, the most pertinent questions for our people are the 
following: 
 
- How long will aspirational declarations and diplomatic 
maneuvering delay the concrete actions required to ensure our 
planet remains below the 1.5 degree target? 
 
- Will developed countries ackno wledge that insufficient fund ing 
for adaptation measures results in catastrophic loss and damage 
to SIDS? 
 
- Will G20 countries, responsible for nearly 80% of carbon 
emissions, honour their commitment to develop and implement 
ambitious NDCs to reduce global emissions? 
 
5. St. Vincent and the Grenadines therefore calls for URGENT action to 
avert this climate crisis. 
 
6. The UNFCCC Synthesis Report clearly indicates that current NDCs 
are woefully inadequate. 
 
7. They will NOT bridge the gap between existing commitments and the 
1.5 pathway. 
 
8. We MUST accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in 
this DECISIVE DECADE, to achieve net zero by 205 0. 
 
9. Failure to take the necessary steps to address this climate crisis is 
reckless and endangers the 72 million people living in Small Island 
Developing States. 
 
10. To compromise on the required targets and measures is a death 
sentence for our people ! 
 
11. Negotiating your way out of this responsibility is not an option! 
 
12. Mr. President, my country continues to do its part both nationally, and 
internationally as a non -permanent member of the UN Security 
Council, in the global fight against climate change. 
 
13. Howev er, new and a dditional finance , technology transfer and capacity 
building support are required to ensure we can fully implement the 
Paris Agreement.  
 
14. We welcome the commitment of some developed countries to scale up 
finance pledges and we urge others to d eliver on the outstanding 100 
billion per annum commitment. 
 
15. This fight requires the inclusive action and meaningful participation of 
everyone. We commend Taiwan ’s efforts to legislate climate targets 
and they should be at the table. 
 
16. Finally, Mr President, COP 26 must be remembered as the Summit 
where we completed the Paris Rule book , anything less will be a 
failure ! 
 
17. Climate change is the defining global challenge of our time.  
 
18. We cannot squander decades of hard work . The stakes are TOO high 
and time is running out ! 
 
Thank you. 
 