It is with great sense of pride and self -fulfillment that I stand 
before you this morning to deliver a statement on this 
auspicious occasion of Conference of Parties Meeting (COP 23). 
 
Mr. President, I am pleased to bring you greetings from His 
Excellency the President Dr. Ernest Bai Koroma and from the 
People of the Republic of Sierra Leone to your Presidency, the 
People of Fiji and the Government of the Republic of Germany. 
 
Mr. President we appreciate the hosting of this decisive 
conference which aims at advancing the Paris Agreement 
signed in Paris in 2015 and ratified by participating states. 
 
 2 As a government, we are committed to the Paris Agreement 
and we need not emphasis its devastating effect when climate 
change occurs. 
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with heavy heart to 
report to this gathering that on the 14th August, 2017, Sierra 
Leone suffered one of the worst impact s of Climate Change in 
West Africa due to mudslide event at the outskirt of the Capital 
city of Freetown . The mudslide claimed the lives of more than 
700 people and displaced thousands of people. This great loss 
of lives and property was due to our inability to sufficiently 
determine disaster -prone areas and identify appropriate early 
warning system s. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to our Environmental 
Protection Agency , the Government of Sierra Leone has 
transformed the Meteorological Department into an Agency 
with added responsibility of advising the government on 
meteorology, climatology, Climate Change and its related 
issues. 
 
Mr. President , in order to adapt our ability to climate impacts , 
my Government will be grateful for Technical and Financial 
assist ance for national Programmes and the newly created 
Meteorological Agency through the United Nation Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. 
 Mr. President, it is Critical to note that we recognise the United 
Nations Frame Work Convention and Climate Change as a 
comprehensive , fair and inclusive framework for the adoption 
of the Paris agreement and to advance its implementation , 
that’s why we are gathered here today to discuss mitigating 
measures in achieving the overall objective of the Paris 
Agreement. Sierra Leone looks at this COP 23 to establish a 
collective moment for countries to reflect on their current 
status of implementation for future action and support to 
finance the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
 
The years ahead are crucial for all actors to take greater action 
in order to respect the objectives of the Paris Agreement and 
closing the gap between nations in the implementation of 
climate changes that are occurring in the world to be a safer 
place.  
The writing is on the wall as we have experienced the mudslide 
when least expected . We therefore need to increase our 
collective efforts for urgent climate action as well as assisting 
nations in need. 
 
Mr. President, Sierra Leone has the utmost confidence that we 
will achieve our collective goals under the convention of the 
Kyoto Protocol and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
We must bear in mind the level of countries in the context of 
negotiations to enhance transparency and flexibility as we 
focus on the development of guidelines on how the Paris 
 Agreement’s provisions will be implemented across a wide 
range of issues including transparency, adaptation , emission 
reductions, provision of finance, capacity -building and 
technology during this very important Twenty Third Session of 
Conference of Party (COP23) . 
 
 I thank you all for your kind attention . 
 
 
 