 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL STATEMENT 
BY 
H.E. ZUZANA ČAPUTOVÁ 
PRESIDENT OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
WORLD CLIMATE ACTION SUMMIT 
UN Climate Change Conference (COP28)  
December 1, 2023 
United Arab Emirates, Dubai 
 
(for interpretation purposes only, not for public use) 
 
 
 Check against delivery 
 
Dear President, dear Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
The findings of the Global Stocktake are clea r: humanity is marching towards the 
precipice . 
How many more climate fora do we need to avoid a free fall into it? 
The number of weather -related disasters almost tripled in the past four decades. 
Every five seconds, someone dies a premature death because of pollution. Our inaction 
will soon make it every four seconds.  
88% of the existing disease as a result of climate change occurs in child ren under 5 years 
of age. How much more do we want to harm the future generations?  
Excellencies,  
Decisions , which can avoid the current deadly course are ours to take. The scientists 
have shown what needs to be done to prevent the worst -case scenarios.  
The solutions are right in front of us. Feasible, effective and low-cost options are already 
available to mitigate the climate crisis impact. We have the technologie s, resources and 
skills needed. Let’s use them.  
Our efforts must be ambitious, collective and universal. The science is clear: our 
emissions must peak before 2025. Major economies and emitters are no exemption, 
quite the opposite. If all of us don’t take action in the next two years, and if we all don’t 
become climate neutral by 2050, all our children will suffer.  
Slovakia will do its fair share . Our emissions have peaked already. By 2030, they will be 
55% less than in 1990. In the next seven years, we will invest 5% of our GDP from public 
sources to decarbonize our economy and society.  
The difference between gradual “phasing out” or “phasing down” of unabated fossil fuels 
is not a semantic one. Our decisions will literally save lives.  
So, at the end of this year, Slovakia is stopping the use of coal as a source of electricity. 
In three years, we will phase it out from heat generation. By 2030, we plan to reach 29% 
of renewables share in our electricity production. 
85% of our electricity is already made with zero emissions. We commit to increase this 
to 90% by 2025. I am glad to announce that Slovakia is endorsing the Global Renewable s 
and Energy Efficiency Pledge. 
Since 2015, Slovakia’s green finance has grown almost fivefold, including in greener 
ODA and our contribution to the Green Climate Fund. The Loss and Damage fund should 
help support the most vulnerable - and all big emitters and economi es must step in and 
step up. 
Excellencies,  
Let’s make this COP the first one where the benefits of our concrete commitments 
exceed our excuses and the carbon footprint of the plan es we arrived on. 
Thank you. 