 
Nobel Peace Prize winner, Anti -Apartheid icon and father of South Africa, former President 
Nelson Mandela once said: “When people are determined they can overcome anything”. 
 
Mr President, despite geo -political uncertainty in the global climate change space , I would 
like to emphasise that the Paris Agreement is irreversible and will not be re -negotiated. 
We are resolute in ensuring its implementation. As Oliver Tambo said “to go back means 
defeat” . We are therefore forging ahead with implementation. 
 
The recent unprecedented hurricanes in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico, floods and 
droughts in Sierra Leone and Ethiopia and fires in California, remind us that the dangers 
posed by climate cha nge are increasing exponentially, and that we cannot delay action 
any longer to some point in the future.  
Furthermore, slow onset climate change will have severe impacts on South ern Africa, with 
shifting rainfall patterns, more frequent droughts and flood ing causing devastating health, 
water, food and energy security impacts. 
It is, however, important to stress that there should be no securitization of the climate 
change and environmental agenda s. Empirical evidence on the causal factors of irregular 
migration and terrorism point towards i nsecurity, instability, poverty and lack of 
opportunities as the main push factors and the search for a better life for all as a pull factor ,  
 rather than climate c hange and environmental degradation. Terrorism and migration 
therefore need to be discussed within the appropriate multilateral bodies . 
The impacts of climate change will adversely affect the poorest South Africans the most. 
Therefore, we are investing heavily in taking adaptation action. Now is the time to act for 
the greater global good and future of generations. 
 
All countries have to transition to a n inclusive and just low-carbon and climate resilient 
development pathway. The faster we transition , the less damage will result at lower cost, 
and with maximum benefits . 
 
Mr President, 
 
I must stress that our global transition to a low -carbon and climate resilient future , is bright 
and full of opportunity to finally achieve equitable, inclusive and just development. No -one 
should be left behind.  
 
South Africa ’s pre-2020 actions and its post -2020 Nationa lly Determined Contribution are 
designed to make a fair contribution to the global effort to tackle climate change. For 
example, the accelerated roll out of renewable and clean energy plans , in partnership with 
the private sector is among the many climate actions we are implementing . This rollout is 
designed to coincide with the progressive reduction of coal based high -carbon emission 
infrastructure. To empower South Africa to further ramp up our levels of ambition in the 
context of a just and equitable transition, international cooperation enabling access to 
climate finance and technologies will be essential . 
 
Mr President, 
 
On the substantive issues being discussed here at COP 23 – we are disappointed that 
 there seems to be little appetite to accelerate pre -2020 action , as exemplified by the fact 
that the Doha Amendment has not yet come into force and means of imp lementaiton 
support to developing countires is declining . The ramping up of ambition in the pre -2020 
period by all actors is a crucial signal to our people that we are serious about fulfilling our 
commitments. 
 
We call on ALL developed countries to urgently implement their pre -2020 pledges and 
increase their ambition including the provision of additional, new and predicable support 
to developing countries. 
 
We want to stress that the success of next year’s Talano a Facilitative Dialogue is essential 
towards raising ambition in the post -2020 period. It is also essential for developed 
countries to honour their pre-2020 commitments . 
 
Mr President, 
To put us on a path to success both now and after 2020, it is critical that our negotiation 
of those rules that are needed to operationalize the Paris Agreement , should progress i n 
all aspects. 
There are no small and big issues, all issues are equally important. It is only when we 
have a balance of ALL Party interests that will we achieve the Durban Platform objective 
of an instrument applicable to ALL. 
In this regard , the CoP 23 outcome should address the 3 areas: Firstly, the process through 
which we arrive at the negotiation text : Secondly, balance in terms of how the operational 
rules evolve : and; Thirdly, the Tal anoa Facilitative Dialogue design must include 
consideration of all relevant interests . 
Finally, Mr President, 4
 South Africa stands ready to work with you as the first CoP President from a Small Island 
Developing State to ensure that we leave Bonn with an outcome that puts us on path to 
the successful conclusion of the pre -2020 Agenda and the adoption of the Paris 
Agreement Work Programme. 