I would like to convey the highest regards of His Excellency President
Jacob Zuma and the people of South Africa to His Majesty King
Mohammed the Sixth. We express our heartfelt thanks to the Moroccan
government and people for their warm hospitality. Shukran Jazeelan!

Your Excellency, Minister Salaheddine Mezouar, we congratulate you on
your election as President of this Climate Change Conference.

South Africa associates itself with the statement delivered by Thailand
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, as well as with the statement
delivered by Egypt on behalf of the Africa Group

South Africa is proud to count ourselves among the 110 Parties that
have ratified the Paris Agreement so far. The Agreement is now in force.
This bears testimony to the unwavering commitment and the unified
Purpose of the international community to combat global climate change.

Like other developing regions, the African countries are particularly
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change including increased
food and water insecurity, resulting in hunger, poverty and disease.

The writing  is on the wall. We have to increase our collective efforts 
on the basis of science and equity with intensified urgency.

The UN framework convention on Climate Change is an inclusive, fair,
comprehensive and balanced framework for the adoptation of key 
implementing agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. 
We stress that hte Convention is the core and central basis for ambitour 
and fair collective climate action. 

If we are to achieve Our goal of limiting global temperature increase to
well below 2 degrees Celsius and SUCCessfully meet the 1.5 degree
Celsius goal, and the just transition to low-carbon, inclusive, Climate
resilient €conomies and Societies, we Must close ambition Japs and
accelerate Pre-2020 action,

To this end:
- Firstly, the Kyoto Protocol Doha Amendment Should enter into force
now;

- Secondly, implementation Support for developing Countries Should be
provided. In particular, it is essential to deliver 100 Billion US
dollar Undertaking for ambitious Pre-2020 action; and
- Thirdly, adaptation Should be Prioritised.

Key to the Success of COP22, is to achieve Significant technical
Progress to fully Sperationalise the Paris Agreement by 2020 and we are
heartened to see that work is progressing in most areas.

Ultimately, the Paris Agreement will achieve climate safety globally,
owing to its comprehensive coverage of all major challenges, its 
nationally determined character, its flexibility and its 
transparancy. 

This should provide political assurance to all countries, regardless
of any shifts that may occur in domestic political consituencies. In
the end, we are all in this fight together.

South Africa has the utmost confidence that we will achieve our
collective goals under the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris
Agreement. Furthermore, as we say in Africa 'If you want to go fast, go alone,
but if you want to go far, go together': we know that thare is no viable
alternative to collective multilateral action.

We have indeed come a long way, and it is up to us to stay the course.
Thank you. 


