Let me begin by expressing my sincere gratitude for the hospitality extended to my delegation and i by the Governments of Chile and Spain.
Uganda associates herself with the statements delivered by Bhuttan on behalf of the Least Developed Countries, Egypt on behalf of the African Group and Palestine On Behalf of G77+China.
Madam President The latest IPCC special reports - on 1.5 degree Celsius, Climate Change and Land, and the Ocean and Cryosphere - stress that global warming is increasing the severity of droughts, soil erosion and wildfires. And it is diminishing crop yields in the tropics and thawing permafrost near the poles. Extreme sea level events that used to occur once every hundred years will occur at least once a year in many regions around the world by 2050
To this end, Uganda is of no exception because we have continuously witnessed the extreme weather events such as the landslides, and floods. In other ecosystems, drought is escalating, leading to frequent bouts of famine. These experiences of both the extreme and the slow onset climatic impacts are increasingly eroding the natural ecosystem services that society has been endowed with from generation to generation.

Madam President We come to Madrid with hope and determination to engage constructively in the current negotiations towards a desired outcome and the desire to transform conceptual discussions and technical work to real concrete and implementable actions to avoid the severity of events as proffered to in the special 1.5 report In contrast we see various sticky issues that will undermine our effort in coming up with a successful outcome in Madrid.
Madam President
Under your able leadership and guidance, Uganda looks forward to a favourable, and balanced outcome of these elements; with the main focus on implementation, procedural or otherwise to foster implementation of concrete actions on the ground. In this regard the following decisions are critical to us: Raising Ambition:
Raising ambition is critical and I applaud you madam President for all the effort that we limit temperature raise to well below 2°C. The best available science tells us that greenhouse gas emissions need to peak by 2020 and decline thereafter. This will be more practical if nature based solutions that contribute, 30% of the global climate solution receive considerable attention at this COP. Finance: It is critical that climate finance remains high on the agenda in this COP. As a country, we have a tireless effort to progressively implementing our NDC, with a costed NDC Implementation Plan already in place. The immediate NDC actions have been elaborated and incrementally being implemented albeit with challenges of access to means of implementation.

Government of Uganda has also estimated its finance needs for implementation of the National Climate Change Policy and Nationally Determined Contributions estimated at approximately 6 billion dollars.
On adaptation, finance so far, the country has formulated and defined the strategic investment plans to build resilience and enhance adaptation. However accessing the much-needed financing to ensure such projects are implemented remains a challenge. Madam President
The extreme events, which I have highlighted above, place a spotlight on loss and damage caused by climate change,
The Warsaw International Mechanism of loss and damage associated with climate change impacts was established under the UNFCCC, to promote the implementation of approaches to address loss and damage.
To this end, consideration of the Loss and Damage is critical and therefore the need to finalise the WIM
On Markets: We welcome the significant progress made over the years, on all major issues related to Article 6. However as we finalise the rules for markets and non market mechanisms, we call the need to maintain environmental integrity, ensure adaptation mechanisms are an intergral part of article 6 and move beyond pure offsetting of emissions and deliver overall mitigation in global emissions, avoid double counting, not allow the carryover of pre-2020 Kyoto units to the Paris Agreement or other accounting loopholes, and deliver a share of proceeds from the market mechanisms for the Adaptation Fund
Madam President
That notwithstanding, my delegation looks forward to seeing a balanced treatment of the mitigation and adaptation issues in the draft decisions and conclusions to be proposed in Madrid.

Finally, I would like to assure you of Uganda’s commitment to working closely with the Presidency and the Chile Government during the remaining days of this conference to ensure a successful and balanced outcome in this COP.
I thank you, Madam President
