Let me begin by expressing my sincere gratitude for the hospitality extended to me and my delegation by the Government and the people of Poland. I commend Poland for the excellent arrangements and for steering the negotiations in an open, transparent and highly inclusive manner.
Uganda associates herself with the Statements delivered by Ethiopia on behalf of the Least Developed Countries, Egypt on behalf of the African Group and the G77+China as well as the Democratic Republic of Congo on behalf of the Coalition of Rainforest Nations.
Mr President, As a witness to extreme climate calamities that my country and many other vulnerable countries are now facing, Uganda has come to Poland with hope and determination to engage constructively in the current negotiations towards a desired outcome of delivering a robust Rule Book to allow us to begin full implementation of the historic Paris Agreement.
The 5th Assessment Report and the recent Special Report on 1.5 degrees Celsius released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate change (IPCC) as well as the latest Africa’s Adaptation Gap Report by UN Environment are very clear. All predict that the impacts of climate change will lead to more flooding, famine, drought and disease which will have negative impacts for millions of people. As you are aware, the IPCC Special Report further warns that the planet is heating up faster than anticipated and that we have only less than 12 years to take bold action to avoid a myriad of catastrophes.
Mr President,
In this context, Uganda is no exception as we have continuously witnessed the extreme weather events resulting in recurrent landslides in the highlands of eastern and western parts of the country as well as surrounding lowlands. As if these were not enough punishment, the country has equally been hit hardest by myriad of prolonged droughts, heat waves, storms and infestations of crop pests and diseases. All these have brought corresponding problems of severe famine and malnutrition for the affected communities and are greatly eroding the life-support natural ecosystem services. Our limited development funds for roads, agriculture, social services and critical infrastructure have of necessity been shifted to deal with humanitarian assistance to the victims.
However, despite these challenges and noting that my people are least responsible for causing this warming up of the mother earth, my Government is totally committed to playing its role based on our national circumstances. Already Government has put in place the policy, institutional and legal framework to respond to this ‘monster’. Our National Climate Change

Policy and the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) are quite ambitious in contributing to reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from mainly the forestry, energy, transport, wetland and agriculture sectors as well as promotion of carbon market mechanisms. Water, health, human settlements and infrastructure climate proofing are equally important in our adaptation measures. Mr. President
On climate finance, Uganda strongly urges the developed countries Parties to honour their pledges of mobilizing the USD 100 Billion per annum by the year 2020. We however salute those industrialized countries that continue to provide financing to poor and vulnerable countries like Uganda to address priority adaptation and climate resilient interventions. The Katowice outcome must therefore provide for all the essential elements of finance to support the poor vulnerable countries tame the run-away climate change problem. Mr. President, The slow onset events facing us put a spotlight on loss and damage with associated impacts such as displacements and loss of livelihoods. In this respect therefore my Delegation calls for enhanced Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage under the COP 24 outcome. Mr President I recognise effort in galvanising bolder ambition through Talanoa which ensures a constructive, transparent and solutions-oriented dialogue. We therefore strongly believe that the conclusions of these dialogues should propel further climate action to save the planet.
On gender and climate change with human rights responsive lenses, there is need to provide enhanced financing and capacity as well as climate-smart technologies. It is therefore necessary to incorporate the gender action plan into the implementation guidelines of the Paris Agreement. Mr. President
Finally, Uganda therefore looks forward to seeing a balanced and favourable outcome in Katowice.
I thank you.
FOR GOD AND MY COUNTRY