Majesties and Excellencies, 
I wish to commend the Government and People of the
United Kingdom for hosting COP26 and for extending an
invitation to Zimbabwe to participate. I also congratulate
Your Excellency, Mr. Alok Sharma, on your election as
the COP26 President.
Zimbabwe has not been spared from climate change
challenges which have led to an increasing frequency of
severe droughts and cyclone induced floods.
These, coupled with the economic sanctions imposed on
us and the COVID-19 pandemic have had negative
impacts on the lives and livelihoods of the people of my
country.
The importance of solidarity and cooperation to tackling
global challenges, cannot be over emphasized. It is most
unfortunate that the impact of Climate Change is
disproportionately borne by the vulnerable communities,
which have contributed the least to the current stock of
atmospheric carbon.

Vulnerable countries must therefore be capacitated to
mitigate, adapt and build resilience to climate change.
The expectation is that major emitters will scale up
mitigation action and show greaterinterest in adaptation.
Decisions at this COP26 should strengthen the
implementation of current Nationally Determined
Contributions (NDCs).
It is further imperative that the set emission reduction
targets are anchored on supporting, financing and
equipping countries to gradually and sustainably migrate
from fossil to renewable energy.
Notwithstanding that as a country we are “a net sink”;
I am pleased to highlight that Zimbabwe has revised its
Nationally Determined Contributions and committed to a
‘conditional 40% per capita greenhouse gas emissions
reduction target, by 2030.Comprehensive strategies are
also being implemented towards mainstreaming climate
change adaptation andresilience across all sectors of our
economy. The removal of the illegal sanctions imposed
on my country, will undoubtedly enhance the timely
achievement of our commitments.
“Zimbabwe is Open for Business” and my Government
stands ready to welcome and facilitate investments from
across the world towards greening our economy and
achieving sustainable development, which leaves no one
and no place behind.
Mr President; The demonstration of sincerity and good
faith by members will help restore confidence in the new
commitments madeat this Summit.

Consesus on a clear roadmap for the new finance goal
mustbe reached, while carbontrading needs to go beyond
off-setting emissions, to more practical action on climate
-change mitigation.

Finally, let us all show bold and decisive leadership in
tackling this weighty responsibility before us.
Zimbabwestands ready to collaborate with all countries
and partners within the comity of nations to achieve our
noble objectives.
I thank you.