Mr. President, 
Your Excellences , 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
 
Let me begin by expressing the warmest thanks to the Government and the German 
people, for hosting these significant Conferences in their beautiful country and the city of 
Bonn. 
 
After the ratif ication of Paris Agreement from Albanian Parliament in July 2016, we hope 
that it will promote to address existing and emerging challenges attributed to the global 
warming in many, vulnerable countries to climate change, including Albania. 
 
Albania , although a small country with a low emission contribution, is determined to 
assume its share of responsibility in this process. On behalf of the Albanian Government 
I guarantee you for the commitment of Albania as a serious partner to the 
global efforts for the reduc tion of greenhouse gases emissions, being fully confident that 
the contribution of a developing country such as Albania, with the respective obligations 
and responsibilities of our country under the United Nations Framework Convention, 
and Paris Agreement is very useful to the global challenge; 
 
To that purpose, Albania has finalized the National Strategy on Climate Change (NCCS) 
and its Mitigation Action Plan (MAP) and National Adaptation Plan (NAP), as well the 
Second and Third National Energy Efficiency Action Plan (NEEAP), as the main 
document s which set the pillars for the implementation of NDC; 
 
Our challenges in this process are related to maintaining the low level greenhouse gases 
emissions from energy production sector and developing low carbon poli cies in order to 
prevent the increase of greenhouse gases emissions from other sectors of the economy 
and the investments to implement significantly the energy efficiency measures and to 
start an emission reduction path in transport, industry and building sectors. 
 
Furthermore, Albania is particularly vulnerable to climate change the effects of which are 
already noticeable in certain sectors, such as agriculture and tourism. It is crucial to 
establish the climate change adaptation system and to implement measures already 
identified in NAP document, to protect from negative impacts, reduce possible damage 
and costs. 

To that end, supported by GIZ, the National Adaptation Plan is finalised while the 
Adaptation Plan for Coastal Zone as part of the 3rd Natio nal Communication is trying to 
mainstream adaptation measures as part of the integrated coastal zone management; 
 
Alignment with the EU climate acquis is another important step on the way to 
implementation of Paris Climate Agreement and the NDC commitments . Ministry of 
Tourism and Environment, responsible for environment and climate change, supported 
by EU, developed the draft climate change law to ensure an effective institutional 
framework at national level that contributes to mitigate the country’s GHG e missions and 
maintain and enhance carbon sinks and reservoirs. 
 
The draft Law “On climate change”, together with the draft Decision of Council of 
Ministers “On establishing a mechanism for monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas 
emissions and other info rmation relevant to climate change” outline the general 
framework for the Albanian national system for measuring/monitoring and reporting. 
 
As part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change obligations, 
Albania has submitted the 3rd National Communication , calling for increased cooperation 
among all sectors: energy, agriculture, forestry, waste management, transport, etc. and 
mainstreaming gender equality into the climate change policy and actions plans; 
 
We are convinced that multi -lateral and bi -lateral cooperation mechanisms would play 
essential role in success of our undertakings toward to the implementation of the 
Convention and Paris Agreement. Albania is benefitting for instance, from the 
cooperation with EU, GIZ, UNDP and UNEP for implementing projects to address 
concerns related to climate change and challenges associated with sustainable 
development. 
 
Within this perspective, it is needless to say that our efforts should strongly focus on 
increased cooperation within ourselves, in the climate change, green opportunities. 
 
I hope that the deliberations of this Conference will contribute to move ahead in order to 
complete the Paris Work Programme by 2018. 
 
 
 
Thank you 