-Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government 
-Your Excellency the Secretary General of the United Nations 
-Ladies, Gentlemen. 

It is with great honor that I address the 26th Conference of the Parties of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
 
The Republic of Angola considers climate change one of the greatest 
challenges facing humanity, due t o the set of direct and indirect effects that 
they cause to the economic and social life of nations, a fact that constitutes 
a real challenge to development. 

We embrace the cause of mang rove restoration and protection through a 
national campaign to replant mangrove seedlings along the extensive 
national coastline. 

We favor the production and consumption of clean energy from existing 
hydroelectric dams and others to be built, as well as from renewable energy 
sources, with emphasis on photovoltaic energy prod uction projects with 
solar parks that will reduce the consumption of fossil fuels in the 
production of electricity. 

Currently, the national energy matrix already incorporates 62% of non -
polluting energy sources, aiming to reach 70% by 2025. 

We have just s igned in Washington DC with ICCF and Conservation 
International, an agreement for the conservation of the Luengue -Luiana and 
Mavinga parks, for the protection of animal and plant wildlife and the 
development of sustainable international tourism. 

We approved the National Strategy for Climate Change 2021 -2035, aiming 
to achieve the goals set out in the Paris Agreement, as well as an important 
environmental legislative package, containing the instruments that will 
enable a decisive contribution to the global ef fort to mitigate the causes and 
adapt Angola to the effects of climate change. 

Angola is aligned with the international consensus on sustainable 
development, including Africa – 2063, in line with the Sustainable 
Development Goals. 

Excellencies, 

Angola defined its Nationally Determined Contribution to reduce carbon 
intensity in the production of electricity in a horizon until 2025, and 
complementary actions in the field of sustainable management of forests, 
transport and agriculture. 

Adaptation actions to improve climate resilience of our communities and 
protecting social and economic investments were also included. 

We reiterate the firm commitment and determination of Angola to remain 
engaged in climate action, and to the adoption of a low-carbon 
development model. 
 
Thank you 