Mr Chairman 
 
My government thanks the Government and people of Fiji for 
presiding over COP23. 
 
This is the first time that a Small Island Developing State has presided 
over this important conference. 
 
Mr President, 
 
Climate Change is real. It respects no border, no country, large or 
small, rich or poor.  
 
We in the Caribbean, have had to endure the devastation of more 
frequent and ferocious hurricanes as a result of global warming. We 
are enduring persistent droughts, floods, ocean acidification and 
other climate disasters.  
 
Mr Chairman, we cannot, deny the effects of what we see, feel and 
hear.  
 
Climate change is not a hoax; it is real and it comes with deadly 
consequences.  
 
No responsible leader, could reaso nably deny the reality of climate 
change; and no great nation should shirk its climate responsibility. 
 
Each nation should, as a matter of priority, honour its pre-2020 
commitments, and those enshrined in the Paris Climate Accord. 
 
It has been two and a half months since my government was 
compelled to evacuate all the residents from Barbuda in the wake of 
the monster, Hurricane Irma. 
 
The residents of Barbuda have not been able to return except for a 
handful of adults, who are living under extremely primi tive conditions. 
 
There is no potable water, no electricity, no hospital, no school and 
no roof on many of the homes left partially standing. 
 
While emergency relief has been provided by some governments and 
charitable organizations directly to the Red Cross and international 
agencies, my government has been carrying the burden of caring for 
the residents of Barbuda; who are living as internally displaced 
persons, on the main island of Antigua. 
 
In addition, we have had to accommodate approximately 3,000 
Dominican nationals, who can be classified as climate refugees.  
 
Simultaneously, my government has been paying the major share of 
the costs of cleaning-up Barbuda, re-establishing public utilities and 
rebuilding public infrastructu re and institutions. 
 
Our small economy can ill afford it. 
 
But, the residents of Barbuda are my country’s citizens. 
 
Regardless of what assistance my government gets - or does not get - 
from the international community, we have a duty to care for them 
and to rebuild Barbuda. 
 
And, we will do so, how ever long it takes. 
 
But, the decimation of Barbuda was not caused by any fault of the 
Barbudan residents, or by my government. 
 
We are the victims of the profligacy of large and wealthy countries 
that have ge nerated changes in climate, producing more frequent and 
ferocious hurricanes. 
 
The liability is theirs not ours. 
 
Yet, we are paying the price. 
 
And that is not only injurious, it is also unfair and unjust. 
 
Therefore, capitalizing the Green Climate Fund and the Global 
Environment Facility, securing the future of the Adaptation Fund, and 
reducing harmful greenhouse gases into the earth's atmosphere are 
vital; failing which, the world will witness the termination of centuries 
 old civilizations in the Caribbean, Pacific islands and other coastal 
communities globally.  
 
Instead of spending trillions on useless wars and regime change, 
wealthy nations should reduce their carbon foot print and spend the 
money on global adaptation and mitigation, in protection of our planet 
earth. 
 
My government thanks the people and government of Germany for its 
pledge to provide the Adaptation Fund with an additional 50 million 
euros. 
 
Germany is forging a progressive and responsible path that all should 
follow. 
 
We invite similar generosity to the donor conference being held at the 
United Nations in New York on Tuesday the 21st of November for the 
reconstruction and rebuilding of the Caribbean after the devastation 
caused by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. 
 
It is time, that all the world’s worst historical polluters acknowledge 
the damage and harm they have done to others, and take 
responsibility for delivering loss and damage compensation. 
 
In any system of justice and fairness, compensation is paid to the 
injured by those who cause injury. 

 Right now, funding to restore livelihoods, and rebuild more climate 
resilient societies is urgent. 
 
The old ways and systems will not do. 
 
They were not developed to provide for the deadly damage and 
resultant crises of climate change. 
 
Urgency in assessment, rapid disbursement and complete removal of 
ridiculous disqualifying criteria, such as per capita income, must be 
central to the rules dealing with this overwhelming threat and its 
attendant crises.  
 
The planet Earth belongs to all humankind, not to a few; its bounty is 
the common heritage of all nations, not only the rich; the burdens of 
its destruction should not be dumped on the small and vulnerable; 
the obligations of its care must fall to all, rich, poor, large and small.  
 
Let us all conjoin and work collectively as good stewards of planet 
earth, to adapt and mitigate the harmful effects of climate change. 
 
Thank you. 
 
 