Statement of the head of delegation of the Republic of Armenia at the 2 5th 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on 
Climate Change 
Mr. President, Excellences, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me express my gratitude to the Government of Spain for hosting and the 
excellent organization of the Climate Conference, and Chilean Presidency for 
leadership. 
Climate change is running and it is running even faster than previously 
perceived . From small islands to mountainous landlocked countries like 
Armenia, the humanity witnesses and experiences the impacts of this change : 
our ecosystems are depleting, floods, wildfires and heatwaves are growing in 
intensity and frequency, forcing millions to search for new livelihoods and 
exposing current and future generations to lifelong health threat. In Armenia this 
year we experienced an unprecedent number of exten sive forest fires , while the 
country has already registered a 1.3 -degree Celsius average temperature increas e. 
The Paris Agreement is a historic turning point in setting out a global framework 
to fight climate change and transit to low -carbon economies , giving rise to new 
economic opportunities, creating new jobs and reducing poverty. We should 
therefore make the most of those rising opportunities by boosting national 
capacities, developing and implementing innovative solutions and, finally, 
enhancing chan nels of cooperation between developed and developing 
countries. 
The Republic of Armenia considers climate cost as not a simple cost but rather a 
long term, economically efficient, socially fair and environmentally sound 
investments for the resilient develo pment of all the countries across the globe. 
 In its long -term development plan and INDC , Armenia prioritizes country -wide 
reforestation and afforestation measures . This year for the first time our 
government used a large share of its own resources for preparation of 
reforestation activities in the country, while next year we are going to plant 10 
million trees on the 10th of the 10th month as a starting milestone towards 
doubling the current forest cover. While increasing the forest cover ambitiously 
will greatly benefit our country from added value of combating climate change 
and enhancing sustainable development, it will also largely contribute to global 
climate action as forestation in Armenia is a lot more cost effective than in 
develop ed countries, and hence leveraged additional funding can be directed to 
this aim at larger scale . 
Distinguished delegates, 
The Republic of Armenia along with its international partners has developed a 
debt-for-climate innovative financial swap mechanism which is directed to 
leverage additional finance into climate action and provides the opportunity for 
creating platforms for efficient mobilization of climate finance between 
developed and developing member states. 
This innovative instrument is designed to leverage action to raise climate 
ambition by allowing developed countries to fulfil commitments under the Paris 
Agreement a s well as redirecting bilateral and public debt of developing 
countries towards timely and efficient implementation of their NDCs. 
We believe this mechanism can be successfully scaled and we would be happy to 
share our experience and knowledge in developi ng and utilizing it. 
 
Thank you for your attention. 