Mr President, Ministers, colleagues.

I extend Australia's appreciation to Morocco for hosting this important
conference.

Australia is a strong supporter of the Paris Agreement. We ratified the
Agreement last week and welcome its entry into force.

Australia has also ratified the Kyoto Protocol Second Commitment
Period.

Success depends on our actions and Australia is on track to meet our
2020 target.

Our 2030 target will halve our per capita emissions and reduce
emissions by two-thirds per unit of GDP.

Australia is also supporting other countries reduce emissions through
their Nationally Determined Contributions, with around 100 NDCs
identifying the land sector as a priority.

Yesterday I announced a major new initiative. Australia’s $16 million
Indo-Pacific Land Action Package will help countries strengthen land
management, fund public-private sector partnerships, and achieve
greater coordination through the NDC Partnership launched in
Marrakesh.

This is complemented by a $2 million contribution to the Global
Environment Facility’s Capacity Building Initiative for Transparency.

As co-chair of the Green Climate Fund Australia is working to ensure
the effectiveness and impact of funding, to leverage the private sector
and to improve countries’ access to funds, particularly for the Pacific.

We welcome the $100 billion Roadmap and the impact it will have mobilising
private sector capital.

Australia is also pushing into new areas, working with business and 
industry to increase the impact of public funding.

For example, Australia has invested $32 million in the Private
Infrastructure Development Group to lower the perceived risk of
energy infrastructure in parts of Asia, to make them more attractive to
private investors.

Through this group, and building on investor confidence, a
hydropower project in Vietnam is now delivering 30 megawatts of
clean power, benefiting up to 130,000 people.

In addition, our International Partnership for Blue Carbon is focused
on coastal ecosystems for mitigation, adaptation, food security and
livelihoods.

We also support the work of the International Coral Reef Initiative to
make the world’s coral reefs more resilient, complemented by
Australia’s world leading Reef 2050 Plan for the protection of the
Great Barrier Reef.

I also welcome the phase down in the use of hydrofluorocarbons
under the Montreal Protocol, with Australia co-chairing the
negotiations.

Australia has joined the International Civil Aviation Organization’s
carbon reductions scheme, which will see airlines offset emissions
growth beyond 2020.

A growing number of nations have agreed to reduce shipping
emissions through the work of the International Maritime
Organization.

The long term challenge is integrating our climate actions across
policy, business and industry decisions to achieve the global
transition we signed up to last year.

Australia is committed to this long-term goal and we look forward
to working across the climate landscape to make this happen.
