Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
dear representatives of the Civil Society, 
 
In 2015, at COP21 , we adopted  
the Paris Agreement. 
A common goal , 
to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius . 
 
But we have to be honest, 
we are far from reaching the 1,5 goal. 
In fact, the opposite is happening:  
 
Global CO2 emissions 
rapidly rebounded following the COVID -19 pandemic . 
And all around the world, 
we are experienc ing the devastating consequences  
 of the climate emergency. 
 
Large parts of the Global South  
– of which Egypt is also a representative – 
are hit particularly hard 
by the effects of the climate crisis. 
 
Rightfully so , the most affected countries 
demand financial support 
for climate adaptation 
as well as measures to address loss and damage. 
 
We, the countries of the Global North, 
are responsible for a large part of global CO2 emissions . 
 
Austria will assume its responsibility 
by signifcantly increas ing its budget 
for international climate finance. 
 
In the upcoming years – the period from 2023 to 2026 – 
the ministry for climate action will provide 
an additional 220 million euros in international climate finance. 
 
For me, as the Austrian President, 
it was important t hat my country shows solidarity. 
 
We want to do our part 
to save the world‘s rainforests from disappearing, 
to protect our oceans and its incredible marine life 
and to support the resilience of our most vulnerable communities. 
 
However, we cannot limit ourselves 
to the question of climate financ e. 
 
Because one thing is clear: 
we cannot buy ourselves out of the climate crisis. 
 
Money alone won‘t make our air cleaner, 
it won't stop Earth from warming up, 
and it won't prevent the glaciers from melting . 
 
Austria aims to 
become climate neutral by 2040.  
 Many other countries have set themselves similar goals. 
 
But these goals must be backed up by concrete measures. 
Otherwise they are just blah blah blah, 
as Greta Thunberg would say. 
Indeed, when we look at the UNEP report, we can clearly see: 
there is far too much blah blah blah and far too little concrete action. 
 
I understand Greta's criticism. 
I understand that young people – but not only young people – 
are running out of patience. 
It is up to us to do everything we can 
to regain trust. 
Through concrete action and through binding commitments. 
 
Austria will do its part. 
We ar e expanding renewable energies, 
we are phasing out the installation of fossil fuel heating systems, 
we are investing record sums 
in public transport. 
These are steps in the right direction, 
but we need to do much more, much faster . 
 
All of us, no matter from which country, political party or institution we are 
coming from, must ask ourselves every day: 
how can we do even better? 
 
We must do everything we can 
to ensure 
a liveable future on this beautiful planet 
for generations to come. 
Thank you! 
 