Mr President, Ministers, Colleagues. 
 
I thank Poland for hosting this important session of the Conference of the Parties. 
 
Australia also pays tribute to Fiji as the first Pacific COP presidency, and for 
excellent leadership on the Talanoa Dialogue that has taken place over this year. 
 
The clear message from the dialogue is that we must act; and act together, 
because climate change affects us all, and Australia must play its part . 
 
Australia is committed to the Paris Agreement, and to ensuring that we agree on 
a robust rulebook here in Katowice.  
 
We are on track to meet and beat our 2020 Kyoto commitments.  
 
And we are conf ident we will meet our 2030 target – which represents a halving 
of emissions per person. 
 
Around the world, countries are laying the foundations for a low -emissions global 
economy. Australia is no different. 
 
We have policies to align strong economic growth with emissions reduction. 
 
We are moving towards a new energy future, while ensuring energy remains 
affordable and reliable. 
 
[Mr President] 
 
While the Australian economy has experienced 27 years of economic growth, we 
have driven our emissions per unit of GDP to its lowest level in 28 years. 
 
Emissions in our electricity sector are falling, driven by unprecedented investment 
in renewable energy – Australia has one of the highest rates of uptake of 
residential solar in the world. 
 
Our Clean Energy Finance Corporation, the world’s largest green bank, has 
leveraged nearly $20 billion in low emissions technology investment. 
 
Australia has one of the world’s largest reserves of lithium and we are investing in 
lithium mining to provide the resources that will fuel the battery storage 
revolution.  
 
[Mr President] 
 
The Paris Agreement demonstrates how the international community can work 
together to so ve the global problem of climate change. 
 
Australia believes that effective international action requires a clear 
understanding of what countries are committing to and whether those 
commitments are being met. 
 
Paris is premised on parties working toget her, collectively and transparently.  
 
It’s in this cooperative spirit that Australia shares our science, skills and 
experience with others. 
 
Our emissions reporting is of an exceptionally high standard. We are proud of this 
and welcome the opportunity to partner with countries like Indonesia, Thailand 
and Kenya to share our experience in emissions measurement, reporting and 
verification. 
 
We also work with countries around the world on energy solutions, such as 
through the International Solar Alliance, based in India. 
 
Australia is also using our natural resources to provide the low emissions fuels of 
the future. 
 
Our Liquefied Natural Gas exports could save importing countries around 130 
million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent a year … 
 
…And we have huge potential to produce hydrogen. 
 
In 2018 we were proud to begin building a hydrogen supply chain from the La 
Trobe Valley to Japan. 
 
Australia is also playing its part to support countries to adapt to the impacts of 
climate change. 
 
Australia is impl ementing its commitment of $1 billion in climate finance to 2020, 
with a particular focus on building resilience in the Pacific, one of the most 
vulnerable regions in the world. 
 
[Mr President] 
 
Robust implementation guidance for the Paris Agreement will ensure action by all 
countries. 
 
Australia calls on all Parties to work together to secure a comprehensive, robust 
rulebook. 
 
Common rules will lead to action to achieve our shared goals. 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 