Dear Chair,
Excellencies,
Heads of Delegations,.

First of all, let me express my deep appreciation to our
host, the Kingdom of Morocco for organization of the 22nd
session of the Conference of the Parties to UNFCCC.

Almost year ago, nations of the world gathered in Paris to
reach an historic agreement to tackle climate change. It is
a global consensus to reduce carbon emissions and set
national economies on low-carbon path. It is my pleasure
to inform you that Azerbaijan has already ratified Paris
Agreement and commenced to fulfill obligations outlined in
its INDC document.

Climate change represents an urgent threat to humanity
and we all need to increase ambitions with more sensitive
approaches towards climate change mitigation and
adaptation in order to minimize threats.

Azerbaijan, as a developing Country is not included in
Annex I group under the Convention and has not taken
any quantitative obligations in accordance with Kyoto
Protocol. However, the country succeeded to reduce 
GHGs emissions by more than 600 million tons since
the Kyoto process started. It was achieved despite the 
fact that our economy has grown 3 times. This volume
equals to the annual GHGs emissions of well-developed
large European nations. It was not a port of a carbon
trade process, but purely contributions of Azerbaijan to 
the global emission reduction efforts. 

Azerbaijan is one of the few countries that was able to
stop deforestation and achieved increase in reforestation.
Over the past 15 years we increased the volume of
reforestation activities by 2.5 times, tens millions of trees
were planted. Namely due to active planting, We were able
to increase the forest coverage of the country from 11.4%
to 41.8%.

The policy of gasification pursued in the country plays
important role in terms of forest expansion and_ its
conservation. As such, thanks to the large-scale
gasification activities carried out over the past 5-6 years,
up to 90% of country population has been supplied with
natural gas. It has led to the facilitation in forest
conservation with the practice of wood use almost
equaling to zero. This factor plays a great role in reducing
pressures on the forests and thereby increasing the forest
areas. It is important to note that all these mitigation
activities were implemented by country’s own resources.

Our intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC)
presents an ambitious commitment. Despite being a
developing country, Azerbaijan has chosen a low emission
development path. To further contribute to global efforts to
combat climate change, Azerbaijan targets the 35%
reduction for 2030 in the level of greenhouse gas
amiccions.

Nevertheless, the ongoing military occupation of one fifth
of the territory of Azerbaijan, including it Nagorno-
Karabakh region by Armenia and the existence of almost
one million refugees and Internally Displaced People have 
created, inter alia, a serious environmental burden for
my Goverments, threathens the post-2015 development agenda
in the region and makes it difficult to address the challenges
reflected in my country's sustainable development agenda, 
incuding commitments related to climate change reflected 
in its NINDC.

I would also like to recall that the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change reaffirms that
States have, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations and the principles of international law, the
sovereign right to exploit their own resources.

Illegal occupation of Azerbaijani territories by Armenia is a
serious threat to the unique ecosystem of ancient
Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. Aforementioned illegal
actions of Armenia have not only had serious negative
impact on our capacity to address climate change
challenges, including relevant mitigation and adaptation
targets, but they are also in grave contradiction with the
Convention, as well as global temperature targets and
universal goals and measures against climate change that
we are all discussing here today at COP 22.

Therefore, along with the access to efficient international
market-based mechanisms, the settlement of the conflict
on the basis of the fundamental norms and principles of
international law namely, respect for territorial integrity and
inviolability of the internationally recognized frontiers of
States, is a crucial precondition to help Azerbaijan meet its
respective commitments.

Dear participants,

We recognize the importance of post-2020 ambitions - a 
contribution to global climate change efforts in all long-
term development programmes as prior topic focusing on low-
emission strategies.It means production of thermal,
solar and wind based energy in combination with
hydroenergy will reach 25% share of total energy
production by 2030. Taking into consideration the fact that
we now became a producer but not an importer of solar
panels, it sounds to me a very realistic goal.

Again, let me sincerely thank the Kingdom of Morocco for
organizing this important event.

Thank you for your attention.

