Dear Chair, 
 
Excellencies, 
 
Heads of Delegations, 
 
First of all, let me express my deep appreciation to our 
host – the Government of Germany and the Secretariat of 
the Unit d Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change for excellent organization of the 23rd session of 
the Conference of the Parties to the Convention . 
 
Almost 2 years ago, nations of the world gathered in Paris 
to reach the historic agreement to tackle climate change – 
the global consensus to reduce carbon emissions and set 
national economies on low -carbon path. Azerbaijan has 
ratified Paris Agreement in 2016 and commenced to fulfill 
obligations outlined in Nationally Determined Contributions 
(NDC) document.  
 
Climate change represents an urgent threat to humanity 
and we all need to increase ambitions with more sensitive 
approaches towards climate change mitigation and 
adaptation in order to minimize threats. 
 
Azerbaijan, as a developing country is not included in 
Annex I group under the Convention and has not taken 
any quantitative obligations in accordance with Kyoto 
Protocol. However, the country succeeded to reduce 
GHGs emissions by more than 650 million tons since the 
Kyoto process started. It was achieved despite the fact that 
our economy has grown 3 times. This volume equals 
to the annual GHGs emission of developed large 
European country . It was not a part of a carbon trade 
process, but purely contribution of Azerbaijan to the global 
emission reduction efforts. 
 
Our country is one of the few countries that was able to 
stop deforestation and achieved increase in reforestation. 
Over the past 15 years we increased the volume of 
reforestation activities by 2.5 times, tens millions of trees 
were planted. Namely due to active planting, we were able 
to increase the forest coverage from 11.4% to 12.5% of 
the total country territory . In the framework of immediate 
actions , after the adoption of the Paris Agreement 10 
thousand hectares of new forests were planted. 
 
Recent 2 years were also marked with launch of new 
large -scale agro-forests plantings (on many thousands 
hectares). It is a brand new initiative which will help to 
diversify national economy , lead to reduction of CO2 
emissions and increase comfort areas for the wildlife.  
 
In terms of raising energy efficiency after adoption of the 
Paris Agreement, in 2015 -2017 period, already five small 
hydro power stations with total capacity of 12 Megawatts 
were established.  
 
The policy of gasification pursued in the country plays 
important role in terms of forest expansion and its 
conservation. As such, thanks to the large -scale 
gasification activities carried out over the past 5 -6 years, 
more than 95 % of country population has been supplied 
with natural gas. It has led to the facilitation in forest 
conservation with the practice of wood use almost 
equaling to zero. This factor plays a great role in reducing pressures 
on the forests and thereby increasing the forest 
areas. It is important to note that mentioned mitigation 
activities were implemented by country’s own resources. 
 
Azerbaijan’s Nationally Determined Contribution presents 
an ambitious commitment. Despite being a developing 
country, my country has chosen a low emission 
development path. To further contribute to global efforts to 
combat climate change, Azerbaijan targets the 35% 
reduction by 2030 in the level of greenhouse gas 
emissions. 
 
Nevertheless, the ongoing military occupation of one fifth 
of the territory of Azerbaijan, including its Nagorno -
Karabakh region by Armenia and the existence of almost 
one million refugees and Internally Displaced People have 
created, inter alia, a serious environmental burden for my 
Government, threatens the post -2015 development 
agenda in the entire region and makes it dif ficult to 
address the challenges reflected in sustainable 
development agenda, including commitments related to 
climate change reflected in its NDC. 
 
I would also like to recall that the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change reaffirms that 
States have, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations and the principles of international law, the 
sovereign right to exploit their own resources.  
 
Illegal occupation of Azerbaijani territories by Armenia is a 
serious threat to the unique eco system of ancient 
Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. Aforementioned illegal 
actions of Armenia have not only had serious negative 
impact on our capacity to address climate change 
challenges, including relevant mitigation and adaptation targets, 
but they are al so in grave contradiction with the 
Convention, as well as global temperature targets and 
universal goals and measures against climate change that 
we are all discussing here today at COP 23.  
 
Therefore, along with the access to efficient international 
market-based mechanisms, the settlement of the conflict 
on the basis of the fundamental norms and principles of 
international law namely, respect for territorial integrity and 
inviolability of the internationally recognized frontiers of 
states, is a crucial precondition for meeting respective 
commitments. 
 
Dear participants, 
 
We recognize the importance of our commitments under 
the Paris Agreement - a contribution to global climate 
change efforts in all long -term development programmes 
as prior topic focusing on low -emission strategies. It 
means production of thermal, solar and wind based 
energy in combination with hydroenergy will reach 25% 
share of total energy production by 2030. Considering the 
fact that we are transforming from importer to the producer 
of solar panels, it sounds as very realistic target. 
 
Again, let me sincerely thank the Secretariat of the 
Convention for organizing this event. 
 
Thank you for your attention. 
 
 