I first wish to offer my thanks to the President 
and people of Dubai for the warm welcome 
and gracious hospitality you have bestowed 
on us. 
 
My congratulations also to the people of the 
United Arab Emirates on the celebration of 
today, your National Day. 
 
We wish you peace and prosperity. 
 
Your Excellencies: 
 
Time has run out. 
 
Thankfully, mercifully, the record -high 
temperatures experienced earlier this year in 
The Bahamas, did not translate into a 
catastrophic hurricane season. 
 
We were lucky . 
 
But tropical storms and depressions did hit us . 
They caused high levels of rain, extreme 
winds, widespread flooding, interrupted our 
power supply and resulted in significant costs 
and lost revenue. 
 
Over the coming six months , before the next 
‘Hurricane Season’ begins, we can use the 
time to strengthen our National Youth Guard . 
 
We can build more homes out of the ground -
breaking, carbon -negative, ocean -resistant 
concrete pioneered by a Bahamian company, 
Partanna, headed by entrepreneur Rick Fox. 
 
We can also raise more finance using our Blue 
Carbon Credits, backed by our extensive 
underwater fields of seagrasses, which absorb 
more carbon than the Amazon Rainforest. 
 
We welcome the pledges made in the past 
two days at this COP , to the ‘Loss and 
Damage Fund’. 
 
Surely this puts beyond doubt and debate , 
that the principle has now been settled : “the 
polluter pays”. 
  
But it has taken 30 years to agree that there 
should be a fund for ‘Loss and Damage’. 
And in 13 years we have not yet hit the 
original pledge goal of $100 billion per year . 
 
How long must we now wait to have this new 
fund capitalized ? 
 
And how long must we wait before we can 
access the funds? 
 
Time is a luxury we do not have. 
 
And so we are left wondering h ow we should 
interpret the pledges of this COP . 
 
So little pledged , given what is needed. 
So late in the day , given what is forecast. 
 
Is the effort here more to reduce the ‘noise 
pollution’ generated by our advocacy, rather 
than to address the ‘carbon reduction and 
‘climate financing’ so urgently needed? 
 
Are we expected to remain quietly grateful ? 

Frankly, we do not understand why everyone 
does not share our sense of urgency. 
Doing what is needed to help us, also helps 
you. 
Will you not act urgently to save yourselves? 
 
His Holiness, Pope Francis , recently exhorted 
those of us who are Leaders, to “demonstrate 
the nob ility of politics and not its shame” . 
 
But our truths remain inconvenient and, to my 
mind, shameful. 
 
We still live in a world where financing always 
seems immediately available for the bullets 
and the bombs. 
This is a choice. 
 
We still live in a world where narrow 
economic interests continue to drive an 
increase in the burning of fossil fuels . 
This is also a choice. 
 
But we have no choice. 
Our plight is not seen in the images of women 
and children bleeding in the streets.  
Our plight is mostly invisibl e: the slowly -
warming seawater , slowly rising up through 
our porous limestone islands . 
The slowly dying coral, no longer able to 
support the slowly -dying fish. 
 
By the time our plight is made visible for all to 
see, out luck will have run out. 
It will be too late. 
The storm will have passed . 
We can only pray that there is something left 
to see. 
 
Friends: we simply want to live. 
 
 
END 
 
 