Mr. Chairman, 
 
I have travelled a long way away from The Bahamas to 
come here to my ancestral continent in this beautiful city 
of Marrakesh . Most people in The Bahamas have no idea 
why I am here and if you ask them they probably 
will show a mild and fleeting interest, and ask what about 
jobs, healthcare, food and the various necessities of 
life. . 
 
At each step of the journey, I have tried to make the case 
for The Bahamas and why climate change is not an 
esoteric matter but an existential one.  In doing so, I adopt 
the words of our Prime Minister that with 80 per cent of 
our land within five feet or 3 metres of the sea, the sea 
level rise threatens our every existence. 
 
Our leaders have no choice but to make the case for The 
Bahamas that we must all stick by the Paris Agreement as 
the best hope of saving The Bahamas from the coming 
flood , even in the face of indifference by our own 
population.  

The Bahamas has a small population . Our economy is 
small. Our intellectual postulations mean nothing to the 
world.  More often than not, the moral case that we make 
falls on deaf ears. However, when your voice is all you 
have then your voice must make the difference. 
 
We thought that we had won the moral case last year but 
now we hear from one of the developed world’s highest 
public officials that this conference, the agreements we 
forged last year made us co-conspirators to an elaborate 
hoax and that climate change is not in fact real. 
 
I hear the climate change sceptics now placed at official 
levels in the world but I also hear the screams of a little 
girl from a video taken during Hurricane Matthew in 
Nassau last month as the water rushed into her home and 
her parents tried to lift her into the ceiling. “I don’t want 
to die; I don’t want to die,” she said. 
 
In his age Galileo told the people of his age that it was a 
scientific fact that the earth revolved around the sun.  No 
it does not said the religious leaders of his day. They 
threatened him with execution if he did not recant his 
heresy. He did and ended up spending the rest of his life 
under house arrest for telling the scientific truth. 
Some centuries l ater, during the P apacy of John Paul II 
the church apologised to the family of Galileo for the
 wrong which was done to him.  Unfortunately that did not 
help Mr. Galileo who had long since left this mortal coil 
and could not hear the apology or benefit from the change 
of heart.  
 
Similarly then in this age those who now tell us the 
scientists are wrong, there will be no co mfort in 2050 if 
the scientists are proven right. It will be too late for the 
sceptics to say sorry .  
 
Paris was the deal and a deal is a deal. 
 
This means the commitments to the Green Climate Fund 
should be honoured.  It means also that GDP per capita 
must not be used to eliminate The Bahamas for 
consideration for development assistance . The Executive 
Secretariat must provide the funding for small -island 
developing states to get to these meetings, and not be 
consumed by forensic examinations of eligibility based on 
that faulty determinant GDP per capita. We must also 
discard esoteric arguments about whether it’s mitigation 
or adaptation, when they are simply different sides of the 
same coin. 
 
As I looked into the young faces of the C V Bethel High 
School in Nassau, they told me they would be 50 years 
old 2050 . I told them they may be the leaders of the 
country who make the decision to move our population 
elsewhere.  
 
 
On behalf of those children of C V Bethel and the Doris 
Johnson High School in my Fox Hill constituency and all 
the little ones in The Bahamas, I urge us all to stick to 
these commitments in Paris and do what is right. 
 
I thank you. 
 
End 
 
 