 
Mr. President, Excellencies, Delegates, ladies and ge ntlemen, 
Good Morning.  I would like to express my most sincere 
gratitude to the Polish Government and this COP Presidency, 
for the WARM welcome extended to me and to The Bahamas' 
delegation. 
Over 25 years of negotiation has led us, to this point in 
time. The decisions we make at this Conference of the 
Parties, will create the course for the future we want. This 
Polish Presidency has made a stand to relentlessly pursue 
efforts to l imit temperat ure increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius 
above pre -industrial levels. Needless to say, this will represent 
a major victory for Small Island States, like The Bahamas and 
other countries, who have been correctly making the case that 
a 2 degree Celsius rise will be catastrophic and in fact, poses 
an existential threat to our sovereignty, livelihoods and lives. 

In 2015, Small Island Developing States rallied together to 
advocate for a global climate target of 1.5 degrees Celsius. 
That same year, The Bahamas experienced Hurricane 
Joaquin, a Category 4 hurricane with winds up to 120 knots and 
15ft storm surges. Later recorded as the strongest 
hurricane to hit The Bahamas in October since 1866 by the 
National Oceanic and Atmo spheric Admin istration (NOAA), 
Joaquin intensified from a tropical depression directly into a 
major hurricane, bypassing all tropical storm metrics. Causing 
immense flooding, contaminating fresh water wells, destroying 
roadways and infrastructure, a post -disaster assessment by 
the Economic Commission for Latin America and the 
Caribbean (ECLAC), estimated Joaquin’s total damages and 
losses were worth over $120 million ($120,637,340) USD. The 
following year, damages to the northern Bahamas from 
Hurricane Matthew, a category 4 storm when it made landfall 
estimated by The Bahamas Government to be at minimum 
$600 million USD. At this time, many households had yet to 
recover from Joaquin the previous year, compounding the 
level of damage faced by ordinary Bahami ans. 
Matthew d estroyed roofs, uprooted historic trees and pulled 
down power lines. Our electricity system was severely 
impacted as it took months thereafter for power to be restored 
safely to all homes and communities.  
Challenged with not only restoring hope but openi ng the doors 
of our tourism sector and essentially getting Bahamians back 
to work so that they are able to assist their families, in 2017, 
we were again impacted by our third consecutive major 
hurricane —Hurricane Irma.  
This Category 5 superstorm initiate d the first mandatory 
evacuation in Bahamian history as some 5,000 residents from 
the northern, southern and western islands were transported 
to our capital, Nassau. The damage incurred on Ragged 
Island alone was estimated to cost The Baham as $7.8 million 
USD, impacting only 26 households (Pacific Disaster Center). 
Declared uninhabitable, to date, much of the infrastructure on 
Ragged Island is still in disrepair and must be completely 
rebuilt at a tremendous cost. 
In a report published by Tufts University on the cost of climate 
inaction, The Bahamas is projected to use 6.6% and 13.9% of 
our GDP by 2025 and 2050 if WE fail to address climate 
change impacts such as the increasing intensity of hurricanes. 
Dominated by coastal communities which plays a vital role in 
our economic stability, climate change impacts such as hurricanes, 
warming oceans and sea level rise threaten our 
fragile natural resources, infrastructure, roadways, and 
freshwater resources. Damage from hurricanes has even 
resulted in the temporary and sometimes even permanent 
closure of hotels, exasperating social issues such as 
unemployment, poverty, and crime. 
The Bahamas, my home, is a special case. With over 100,000 
square miles of marine territory, 700 islands and Cays, 30 
inhabit ed islands, more than 50 ports and 30 airports, our 
vulnerability to the effects of climate change is onerous. Our 
Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris 
Agreement outline our commitment, as a middle income, 
highly vulnerable country. We are transitioning to green 
technologies, banning the importation and use of single -use 
plastics and expanding our MPA system, but we cannot and 
should not have to do it alone. The international community 
must understand this. The world has seen the amount of 
damage a singl e storm like Hurricane Irma, could have on 
Small Island Developing States. So, I stand before you today 
to challenge you to be more ambitious with global climate 
targets. 
The IPCC Special Report indicates that we have 
approximately 12 years to do what is necessary to remain 
below a 1.5 degree Celsius temperature rise. We must do it, 
and it must start today. 
The Rolle's in Rolleville, Exuma, the Ferguson's in Acklins and 
Andros, the Knowles' in Long Island are all depending on us 
to deliver on that 1.5 commitment, and we must not let them 
down. 
I thank you. 

 
 