His Majesty the King of Morocco 
 
Distinguished Colleagues 
 
President of COP22 and the President of COP21 
 
Executive Secretary of UNFCCC 
 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
AssalamuAlaikum and a very Good Afternoon/ Evening , 
 
It is my pleasure to join you all in this beautiful city of Marrakech. I express 
my sincere thanks to the government of Morocco for hosting this important 
event. This year’s Conference bears a special significance for all of us. We are 
celebrat ing the entry into force of the historic Paris Agreement. 
 
Last year in Paris, we have been successful to create a solid ground for a 
meaningful cooperation in combat ing climate change impacts . Now this is 
time to move forward to implement decisions into actions. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Lives and livelihoods of millions of people would continue to be a t risk unless 
we deliver to our commitments on climate change issues. Bangladesh is one of 
the first countries that signed and ratified the Paris Agreement. Bangladesh is 
the first country to set up ‘Climate Change Trust Fund’ of US$ 400 million 
from its own resources. We have also achieved success in disaster 
management despite our coastal areas being highly vulnerable to climate 
related calamities, such as flood s and cyclones. We have put in place measures 
like early warning system, cyclone shelters and river weeds cultivation that 
have significantly reduced loss of lives and properties in Bangladesh. 
 
Excellencies, 
 
I would like to flag here couple of issues: 
 
First is water security . As a member of the UN High Level Panel on Water, I 
reiterate my government’s commitments to the Action Plan endorsed by the 
members of High Level Panel on Water in New York this September. We must 3 
 ensure safe drinking water and sanitation for all through effective water 
governance . I would also stress on the need for creating a global fund on water 
SDG to support research, innovation and technology transfer . 
 
Second is the issue of climate induced migrants . Unless we address this 
challenge appropriately , we would never be able to attain the objectives of 
Sustainable Development Goals . 
 
At this auspicious moment today, let us join our hands together to consolidate 
our partnership to fight against the perilous threats of Climate Change. We 
must be prepared to share equitable burden to fulfill our promises of making 
the world a safer and better place for our future generation. 
 
I thank you all. 
 