
President of the COP, 
Secretary General, 
Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, 
Excellencies, 
Friends: 
 
It is perhaps appropriate that to solve the greatest challenge facing 
modern humanity, we should come to Egypt, the ancient cradle of human 
civilisation; to the place where the innovation of a people caused the 
pyramids to rise and stand for generations, as a symbol of what humanity 
can accomplish; and whose science permitted modern mankind to look at 
the mummified faces of history and through them, better understand its 
lessons. 
 
Addressing climate impacts is critical for my country and region as front -
line states in the climate crisis, which are simultaneously in the world’s 
most disaster prone, climate vulnerable, debt ridden, and tourism 
dependent regions. 
 
My country, Barbados and the Government I have the honour to lead, are 
pursuing varied policy app roaches for climate adaptation, mitigation, 
resilience building and sustainable development. These encompass the 
crafting of NDCs which align with the 1.5 degree Celsius target required 
by the IPCC; the establishment of a Blue Economy Roadmap and the 
move to a net zero economy. 
 
We also offer as a resilience and development model, our replicable, 
scalable, Roofs to Reefs Programme (R2RP). The aim of Roofs to Reefs, is 
to improve living conditions, terrestrial and marine ecosystems, and 
 transform multiple sectors including water, agriculture, housing, energy, 
transport and waste to support development and build resilience. 
 
Equally, we have embarked on new initiatives to open the fiscal space 
necessary to achieve our development and climate goals, such as Debt for 
Nature Swaps, Disaster and Pandemic Risk Clauses in our sovereign 
debt instruments and capitalising a Blue Green Investment Bank. 
 
As a middle -income country, Barbados’ most critical need is capital to 
address, adapt to, or mitigate climate crisis impacts. Consequently, at 
the international level, we are seeking new means of financing loss and 
damage, promoting the five -pronged Bridgetown Initiative, supporting 
the Global Climate Mitigation Trust, encouraging the use of SDRs within 
the MDB system t o mobilise the trillions of dollars in capital needed for 
the just, green transition and to climate proof our countries against 
“wipe -out events.” 
 
Time does not permit me to elaborate, but Barbados’ strategic objective 
is to foster the creation of a new, global, financial architecture which will 
yield adequate, accessible, new capital, without increasing risk; capital 
at a scale commensurate with the climate challenge which threatens the 
human family and the planet we occupy; capital which will give to 
Barbados, the Caribbean, other small island developing states and the 
vulnerable countries of Africa, a real chance to get beyond climate 
impacts, to growth.  
 
Historically, the human family has confronted every threat by finding 
appropriate solutions. Let us now ensure, that Sharm El Sheik, this City 
of Peace, becomes known as the City of Peace, Planetary Harmony and 
Prosperity, because it was here, the human family finally found the 
leadership and moral fortitude to take action on the climate crisis. 
 
 
 