Mr. President! 
Distinguished participants! 
 
 I would like to extend the words of appreciation to the leadership of 
the United Arab Emirates for the hospitality and the excellent 
organization of the conference. 
 Today , we, the leaders of the world, are engaged in a conversation 
about the future of our planet Earth – our common home. We talk about 
the future of our children and grandchildren. We talk a bout the future of 
all those coming into this world after us. 
 We represent different cultures, different value systems, different 
civilizations. But we ar e all united against the global challenge that nature 
itself has thrown at us. 
Climat e has been changing. Scientists come up with direst 
predictions. 
What is truly progressive is that we hear them and react. Yet 
confronting the threat effectively requires us to state its root causes in an 
honest and open manner . 
First and foremost, it is the lacking sense of proportion in the quest 
for geopolitical, in cluding military, superiority on the part of those forces 
that provoke and flare up hotspots of war in vario us parts of the globe. 
 It is the thirst for enrichment, which turns natural resources into 
personal capital and pilfers from future generations . 
 It is the attempt to put aside from their path all those countries that 
work against the undertaking to subdue and destroy the whole world by 
depriving the earth of its vital energy. 
 More often than not, these policies have been pursued with 
sustainable development allegedly in mind . 
The Republic of Belarus fully implements its obligations under the 
Paris Agreement and goes even beyond them. 
 
We provide invaluable “ecosystem” services to our continent by 
preserving a unique source of oxygen – natural swamps and forests, the 
lungs of Europe. 
We have been developing green and nuclear energy thereby 
minimizing the risks of climate change. 
What we receive in response, paradoxically, is new economic 
sanctions, along with barriers to international trade, and restricted access 
to technology. 
It is high time to face the truth : the green agenda is meaningless 
when confrontation prevails . The agenda requires respect for countries’ 
sovereignty and unreserved justice! 
One cannot trample political opponents with sanctions while 
demanding from them decisions that entail costs for their own national 
economies. That is, the decisions that determine the purity of the entire 
atmosphere, of all groundwater and of the world's oceans. 
Another point: how can one expect expensive and effective climate 
conservation measures to be embraced by countries and peoples that have 
not recovered from colonial oppression yet? 
With this in mind, Belarus urges all those obliged to assume the 
burden of historical responsibility: 
to make a proportionate contribution to addressing climate security 
issues for all the centuries of thoughtless treatment of nature; 
to scale up assistance to developing countries and countries with 
economies in transition; 
to stop voicing “concerns” and start acting for the sake of saving life 
on Earth. 
We have no moral right to live only for ourselves. We must look 
beyond the horizon, we must respect the laws of nature and we must lay 
the foundation for the preservation of the human race here , on our planet. 
We have no other home and never will do ! 
Thank you for your kind attention. 