President Frank Bainimarama , Prime Minister of Fiji, congratulations on your 
assumption of the Presidency. I extend the warmest greetings from the Government 
and people of Belize. We are grateful to Fiji and Germany for the excellent 
arrangements and the warm hospitality. 
 
Mr. President, as the old adage goes - when it seems that things cannot get worse, 
they do.  Just over two months ago, two powerful hurricanes battered the Eastern 
Caribbean, their destructive force turbocharged by unusually warm seas.  Our 
brothers and sisters in the Caribbean suffered unimaginable devastation.  Lives were 
lost and livelihoods upended. Across the globe we are seeing natural disasters that 
seem unimaginable, but regrettably are harbingers of a new hostile global climate 
regime .  
 
The inconvenient truth , Mr. President, is that these extreme hurricane events are not 
the only evidence that we are now living in a different climate . Belize , as well as 
other coastal and island states, is suffering accelerated erosion of our shoreline that 
erodes tourism value , we are experiencing altered rainfall patterns that constrain 
agricultural production , and bleaching of our precious living coral reef that affect 
our fishery supplies . Because we are small, low lying, and tropical , we are 
vulnerable to suffer ing the consequences of climate change . But it is not just us who 
are caused to suffer. The lack of sufficiently effective mitigation efforts threatens 
the very life support system of this planet - our ocean - that threatens all humanity.  
 
Mr. President, SIDS have been living the narrative of climate change and living the 
struggle for global action to combat climate disruptions.  The struggle is real - 
adaptation is now our way of life. Our own survival necessitates low carbon development. 
And so, we lead by example, setting out ambitious plans to reduce our 
already negligible emissions and invest in our resilience. All scientific evidence 
suggests that maintaining the 1. 5 degrees goal requires a steep rise in ambition and 
an inversely proportional decline in emissions. Urgency has never before been more 
palatable. We need to switch gears now and prepare the way for global ambition to 
take a giant leap forward. 
 
We need to see results. Red lines do not exist on the ground. By the time we arrive 
in Poland we must have in hand all the decisions that we can act upon to give effect 
to the provisions of the Paris Agreement. Because the impacts we are facing are not 
tethered to these negotiations, it is important that we keep a holistic picture of what 
is happening around us. The momentum unleashed with the Paris Agreement 
continues despite the decision of the second largest emitter to step back from its 
obligations.  And where one reneges from its obligations, many others including 
Taiwan stand rea dy to make every action count.  
 
Many of our economies are highly dependent on the natural environment, and thus 
particularly vulnerable to climate disruptions . Adequate support for adaptation is a 
must in meeting the cost of adaptation actions. I must emphasize that those issues 
for SIDS that impede access to international finance need to be resolved; for 
example, simplified and expeditious access procedures to the Green Climate Fund . 
Addressing the capacity gaps that prevent SIDS from accessing climate finance also 
need to be resolved. Additionally, the number of projects and amount of funding 
channelled through national direct access entities must be increased drastically if the 
fund is to be effective . Mr. President, the urgency for ambition and action is high! 
Let us take bold steps for the sake of every man, woman and child. 
Please be assured of Belize's support for a 
successful Climate Change Conference in Bonn. 
 
Thank You! 
 