Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
At the outset, allow me to congratulate you on your election as the President of COP23 and 
your leadership here in Bonn. We also extend our appreciation to the City of Bonn and the 
Federal Republic of Germany for the warm and excellent hospitality . 
My delegation associate s with the statement s by Ecuador for the G77 & China , and by 
Ethiopia for the Least Developed Countries. 
Allow me also, to express solidarity and deepest sympathies with the millions around the 
world who were affected this year by climate impacts such as record floods, hurricanes and 
wildfires. 
Mr. President, 
I am pleased to inform that Bhutan completed the national proce ss of ratifying the Paris 
Agreement , and submitted the instrument of ratification on 19 September this year . We now 
look forward to action for implementation. 
As a small landlocked LDC with a significant p art of our population dependent on 
subsistence agriculture, we welcome the positive development on Agriculture as a positive 
way to wards addressing climate action in a vulnerable sector . 
As a highly vulnerable mountainous country , our actions include : 2nd NAP A project to build 
capacity for managing climate ha zards is nearing completion; the third NAPA project to build 
resilience in agriculture and communities is now underway; and l ast week, we launched the 
“Bhutan for Life” project, which is our first GCF funded action. We thank all our partners 
and donors for all their support . 
We are now keen to begin work on our long term NAP process and we await the expeditious 
approval of our NAP readiness proposal by the GCF . 
Mr. President, 
As a LDC, Bhutan has a development imperative , but at the same time we are committed to 
remain ing carbon neutral by following a low emission development pathway . We have 
started to elaborate actions in our NDC , and are finalizing several Low Emission 
Development Strategies (LEDS) . These plans and actions are being integrated along with the 
Sustainable Development Goals into our next Five-Year Development plan . 
However , wenote that while support for preparation of such plans and strategies are readily 
available, the support for implementation of actions is not so easily secured . 
Mr. President, 
Many LDCs , like Bhutan ,are making good progress in sustainable development, and look 
forward to a smooth transition in graduating from LDC status . We therefore call for smooth 
transition measures under the Convention and Paris Agreement in response to UN General 
Assembly resolution A/67/221. Such measures are needed to minimize disruptions to LDCs in 
the graduation phase and we look forward to work on this matter in 2018. 
Mr. President, 
We mark 25 ye ars of the Convention this year –now we need global action over the next 25. 
We call on all P arties to adopt the collaborative multilateral process that gave us the Paris 
Agreement , and ensure timely completion of the “ Paris Agreement Work Program” . We 
need more ambitious mitigation action and enhanced support for implementation. In this 
regard, transp arency of actions and support are of most importance to achieve the goal of 
limiting temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees, and minimizing adverse impacts on the most 
vulnerable. 
Vinaka Vinaka Vaka Le Vu ! 
