Dear Prime Minister Johnson, 
Distinguished presidents, prime ministers and members of 
delegations of all countries,  
Representatives of the non -governmental sector, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
It is a great pleasure to be here today and to have the opportunity 
to greet you all at this imp ortant conference on climate change. 
This conference takes place at a time when we daily face the 
consequences of the COVID 19 pandemic and series of climate 
challenges that pose a difficult task for the future of the whole 
world. 
 
That is why it is important to reach an agreement on how to 
accelerate global action against climate change, in order to 
maintain the global temperature increase below 1.5°C and 
prevent climate change from spiraling out of control. 
 
Each of our countries faces different cha llenges. Regardless of 
that, it is necessary to be on the same page in the fight against the 
climate crisis, and to act together. It is also necessary to set 
realistic and achievable goals. Significant financial resources will 
be needed to implement those goals, especially in countries with 
lower GDP per capita, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 
My country is making efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
However, in the coming period, we will have to invest more 
energy and more funds in order to achieve the goals we have set for 
ourselves. I am pleased to share with you today that Bosnia 
and Herzegovina submitted its updated Nationally Determined 
Contribution (NDC) to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in April this year, reaffirming its 
commitment to fulfilling the Paris Climate Agreement. 
 
By submitting this document, Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes 
one of the first countries in the Western Balkans to adopt an 
updated NDC with a plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
33.2% by 2030 and almost 66% by 2050. 
 
In order to meet our goals of climate change prevention, we are 
also working to enable the transition to sustainability and creating 
an attractive environment for private sector investment in clean, 
affordable energy. We will need substantial international 
assistance in the areas of technology transfer and development of 
financial mechanisms to encourage decarbonisation. The same 
goes for financial support to the climate issues projects. 
With the goal of further decarbonisation of the energy sector, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina signed the Sofia Declaration on the Green 
Agenda for the Western Balkans in November 2020. BiH thus 
committed to work together with the EU to make Europe a 
climate -neutral continent b y 2050. 
In that regard, one of our current most important activities is the 
development of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan 
for the period 2021 -2030 (NECP BiH). That document aligns 
multiple objectives: those of the European Union in the fie ld of 
energy and climate, those of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, the Paris Agreement and the 
Energy Community. 
 
Our plan in Bosnia and Herzegovina will define goals for improving 
the energy efficiency measures, increasing the share of renewable energy 
sources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. 
It will also include the policies and measures to achieve those 
goals. We aim to set ambitious goals for each of the dimensions 
of the Plan, which we believe are realistic to be achieved by 2030, 
and which will enable further development of the energy sector 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 
I would like to emphasize that within the development of the 
National Energy and Climate Plan, Bosnia and Herzegovina is also 
working on the de velopment of a Coal Region Transition Road 
Map. Such transition of the coal regions and the entire energy 
sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina has to be a fair one. It must 
provide for the switch from coal to renewable energy sources 
without any loss of jobs. 
 
Regarding the energy sector, defining ways to finance the energy 
transition is of the utmost importance for Bosnia and 
Herzegovina. The energy transition will require significant 
investment in low -carbon technologies and infrastructure. Bosnia 
and Herzego vina, like many other countries, will need substantial 
international financial assistance and support for the 
decarbonisation of the energy sector by 2050. Special focus must 
be on the planned closure of coal mines and the shutdown of coal -
fired power plants. 
 
There is no doubt that Bosnia and Herzegovina wishes to 
contribute to the fight against climate change. However, we will 
not be able to do this alone. We need the support. We have to 
cooperate with the countries that can accelerate this process with 
their knowledge and resources. Regardless of the fact that I do not 
represent a country with a large population, it will be necessary 
for everyone to contribute to the efforts to stop climate change. 
You can certainly count on us.  
Thank you for your attention . I wish everyone a successful 
continuation of the Conference, which I hope the history will 
remember as a milestone in the fight to save our planet. 
 
Thank you. 