Mr. Chair, 
Your excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
 
It is my great pleasure to address at the 27th Conference of Parties of UNFCCC 
here in Sharm El Sheikh . I would like to greet all of you and express great thanks 
to the UNFCCC Secretariat and to the Government and people of the Islamic 
Republic of Egypt for the excellent organization of the conference. 
 
It is important to emphasize that we all came to Sharm El Sheikh with the same 
concern on Climate issues that are happening all over the world. Our task is to act 
as better as we can to adapt to climate changes and to increase our ambitions on 
reduction of GHGs. 
 
The region of SEE is sensitive, vulnerable, and affected by many negative impacts 
from the climate changes that cause loss of biodiversity, and all other negative 
consequences on human health and the environment . 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina trying to active ly participate in international initiatives 
and working on so many climate issues ( air quality, energy efficiency, agriculture, 
waste management, water management , biodiversity, industry and other ). 
 
In that regards we are very much appreciating to all donors: European Union, 
Kingdom of Sweden, the USA, Federal Republic of Germany, and other countries, 
as well as Global Environment Facility, Global Climate Fund, and Implementing 
Agencies , for the great support providing us . 
 
This is a good opportunity to inform you that we are finishing the process of the 
adoption of a countrywide Environmental Strategy with action plan 2030+ with 
support from the Stockholm Environmental Institute . 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted its updated NDC . The Government has just 
adopted the National Adaptation plan and we are expecting to adopt the revised 
Climate Change Adaptation and Low -Emission Development Strategy in next 
days. So, we are trying to fulfil all our international obligations in climate cha nges 
issues . However, the implementation of all strategic documents and plans depends 
on strong international support. 
 
Last but not least, supporting all activities of the EU at this COP I would like to 
thank one more time to the Secretariat of UNFCCC for significant efforts during 
these years to establish a legal framework to cope with climate changes. 
 
Thank you very much. 