Excellencies, 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
I wish to express my sincere appreciation to His Highness Sheikh Mohamed 
bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates, the 
Government and people of the U.A.E. for hosting this summit. 
 
Excellency, 
 
Climate change has emerged as our generation's most urgent challenge, 
threatening our existence. 
 
Unfortunately, initial results from the first Global Stocktake have revealed that 
we are not on track to limit global temperature rise not beyond 1.5 degrees 
Celsius, and to prevent a global disaster. 
 
This underscores the need for a renewed sense of urgency to fulfil our Paris 
Agreement obligations. 
 
It also demands that developed countries honour past commitments and 
provide adequate resources and affordable technology to combat the impact 
of climate change. 
 
Despite accounting for a mere 0.017 per cent of global emissions, Brunei 
Darussalam takes serious heed to this call for action. 
 
We are committed to balancing national development and environmental 
protection while pursuing sustainable growth for our economy. 
 
We have also maintained over half of our land area in pristine natural 
rainforests, with our mangrove ranked third largest in Borneo. 
 
In addition, we aim to plant half a million permanent trees by 2035, expanding 
our carbon sink further. 
 
Through our Climate Change Policy, we are actively diversifying our energy 
mix, by emphasising on renewables. 
 
Collaborating with all stakeholders, including youth and the private sector, we 
are on track to achieve a 20 per cent reduction in emissions by 2030, as 
outlined in our N.D.C., paving the way to achieving Net -zero by 2050. 
 
Two years ago, Brunei Darussalam took the lead in elevating climate action 
at the regional level. This is why we will be hosting the ASEAN Centre for 
Climate Change. 

It will facilitate enhanced climate change mitigation and adaptation efforts 
across Southeast Asia through research, analysis, data exchange, and policy 
recommendations. 
 
Therefore, we welcome support and cooperation from all interested Member 
States and international organisations to make this centre meaningfully 
contribute regionally and to our global efforts. 
 
Thank you. 
 
 
 
 