
Madam President, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Dear colleagues, 
My participation here today is of utmost importance to me because I strongly believe that 
the future of our planet and our children depends on us and on the decisions taken during 
this Forum. 
Climate change is a serious and imminent threat that will not leave anyone unaffected . 
Climate change is a threat multiplier for peace and security, with serious consequences for 
the entire world. Against the background of the extremely alarming facts and scientific 
scenarios and projections , I am happy that the EU and its Member States, including 
Bulgaria, not only recognize the seriousness of the problem, but are also work ing actively 
and are at the forefront of this crucial battle for humanity and planet Earth . 
Jointly with the other Member States of the European Union, we will exceed the EU's 
overall target of a 20% reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. The available 
data shows that the EU reduced its emissions by 22% between 1990 and 2017, while our 
GDP grew by 58%. In 2014, we adopted an even more ambitious target - to reduce our 
emissions by at least 40% by 2030. The E U has adopted all the necessary legislation in 
order to meet this target, and the analy ses show that when fully implemented, the measures 
for 2030 wi ll enable the EU to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 45% compared to 
1990 levels by 2030. 
Within the European Union, we are actively working on the EU Long-term strategy. We 
are discussing the ways to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 in a just and solidary way 
that is in accordance with the Paris Agreement. 
We are aware that climate neutrality is a major challenge that will require a radical 
transformation of our economy and society, especially given the short time for reaction . 
The achievement of this str ategic goal will require the mobilization of significant 
administrative and financial resources, as well as coordination and joint action in all areas 
of public life . But it will also provide new opportunities for sustainable development. The 
European Union is working hard towards implementing the Paris Agreement and we are 
on the way of exceeding the goal to achiev e a balance of emissions by the second half of 
the century. 
It is important to ensure a smooth and fair transition for all countries that is implemented 
in a cost -effective manner applying the principle of technological neutrality. It should be 
taken into account that in countries with a high share of coal in their energy mix, such as 
Bulgaria, this transition will requir e higher levels of investment and active measures in the 
social s ector . In Bulgaria, 46% of electricity is generated by coal-fired power plants, which 
are the main base load capacity, and in winter this percentage reaches 60. At the same time, 
I would like to highlight that according to Eurostat, Bulgaria is second in the EU in 
reduc ing CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion in 2018 compared to 2017, with 
8.1%, following Portugal, which is in the lead with 9%. 
Promoting and developing regional cooperation is also crucial in the fight against climate 
change. The Bulgarian government gives priority to this issue. The availability of r eliable 
electricity and gas infrastructure projects is key to achieving the goal of improving the 
energy interconnections between EU Member States and neighboring countries, as well as 
to ensuring an adequate balanc e of capacit ies due to the growing share of renewable energy 
by 2030 . 
For Bulgaria, nuclear ene rgy plays an important role in guaranteeing the national, regional 
and European energy security, while at the same time providing affordable electricity and 
acting as a key element in the transition to low -carbon economy. Its importance as a ma in 
pillar of the CO2 -free European electric power system was also reaffirmed in the 
Commission 's long -term vision for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, published 
in 2018. Our country will continue to rely on nuclear energy over the coming years. 
Last but not least, I cannot let this opportunity pass without highlighting that the EU's 
emissions are only 9% of the world's emissions . We cannot and should not expect that the 
EU alone can tackle the global problem of climate change. Without the active and 
ambitious efforts of all parties, achieving a significant and tangible result will be 
impossible. Therefore, I would like to urge you all to take active action. Because the 
prosperity of our planet depend s on our joint efforts, on whether we are successful or we 
fail to deliver actual results! 
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that a general transformation will require as a 
must the active involvement of the entire society, the private and financial sectors, and 
above all , a change in the behavior of each of us . 
 