1. The Cambodian delegation highly appreciat e the Egyptian Government and the UNFCC C 
Secretariat for hosting this 27th UN Climate Change Conference here in this beautiful city 
of Sharm El Sheikh . 
2. Thanks to peace, political stability and sustainable economic grow th over the last two 
decades, Cambodia is embarking towards a middle -class society. This has opened up new 
opportunities for Cambodia to address climate change as a responsible member of the 
international community. At the same time, we remain highly vulnerable to climate change 
impacts. 
3. Despite being among the lowest emitter s of greenhouse gases , Cambodia has consistently 
done its share to mitigate climate change . 
4. Cambodia was the second LDC and the first in ASEAN to su bmit a Long -Term Strategy 
for Carbon Neutrality with a 2050 target. We have also updated our NDC. 
5. In the face of climate change impacts, we have a strong duty to protect the most vulnerable 
people in our society. We are investing in resilient infrastructures , turning our cities into 
livable cities, ensuring access to basic and affordable services, affordable housing, food 
security and decent wages . 
6. We have allocated 2.3% of GDP in public resources for climate a ctions, and incorporated 
more renewable energy in our energy mix . We are adopting a new National Energy 
Efficiency Policy . We have approved a new pro -environment investment law and we are 
greening our financial sector to promote private sector investment in climate responses . 
7. However, while we are engaging in this crucial fight against climate change , new 
challenges have added up in recent years . COVID -19 and geopolitical tensions have 
 wreaked havoc in the world, dramatically disrupti ng global supply chains and food systems ; 
energy and food shortages are impacting our daily lives . 
8. In these complex times, we must not lose sight of the urgent actions needed to address the 
climate crisis, whose impacts are already affecting us, with increasing losses and damage 
every year . 
9. Cambodia believes that (1) mitigation ambition must be further increased, and (2) actions 
on adaptation need to be accelerated . 
10. The USD100 billion per year commitment in climate finance to developing countries has 
not yet been reached and must be a top priority. 
11. At the same time, the structure of global climate finan ce flows is inadequate to address the 
needs of the most vulnerable countries and communities , and access to finance remains too 
complicated and slow for developing countries.  
12. The inclusion of financing for Loss and Damage in this COP agenda is welcome and we 
do hope that rapid progress can be made on this issue to deliver financing on the ground 
for the most affected countries.  
13. As the 2022 ASEAN Chair , Cambodia initiated “ASEAN Green Deal”, aiming to guide 
ASEAN towards a green , low -carbon and sustainable future. In addition, as the chair of the 
ASEAN Working Group on Climate Change, Cambodia present ed the ASEAN Joint 
Statement on Climate Change, which was just adopted by the ASEAN Leaders during the 
recent ASEAN Summit in Phnom Penh. 
14. We look forward to ambitious results for this conference, delivering the mitigation 
ambition and the financial resources needed to effectively protect our economies from the 
climate crisis. 
Thank you ! 