1. It is my great pleasure to address th is “High Level Segment of the United Nations Climate 
Change Conference” . On behalf of the Cambodian Delegation, I would like to express our 
appreciation to the governments of Spain and Chile as well as the UNFCCC Secretariat for 
making this important event possible, so that we could continue discussing the steps forward 
to address the pressing problems of climate change. 
 
2. This year has aga in seen mounting scientific evidence of the impacts of climate change on 
agriculture and important biospheres critical to livelihoods and food security in vulnerable 
countries like Cambodia. The recent Special Reports by IPCC all underscore the need to act 
urgently and with more ambition. 
 
3. Cambodia supports efforts by the UN Secretary -General to promote enhanced climate action, 
and welcome the increased level of citizen mobilization for climate actions that we have seen 
around the world in 2019, particular ly the youth. 
 
4. However, we remain gravely concerned that the level of commitments registered to date fall 
far short of what is needed to achieve the 1.5°C target, and put us on a path that would see 
dramatic consequences for the economies and societies of Least Developed Countries. In this 
regard, Cambodia fully supports the Thimphu LDC Ministerial Communique issued last 
October. 
 
5. We expect this COP25 to complete the Paris Agreement implementation guidelines, including 
a strong set of rules for carbon marke ts under Article 6. We need this framework to be in place 
as soon as possible, while the next year will be focused on enhancing the quality and ambition 
of NDC . 
 
6. Cambodia is committed to the Paris Agreement and has been doing its share, in line with the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. Indeed, 
peace , stability and sustained economic growth sustained over the past 20 years allow 
Cambodia to steadily advance many environmental and climate change agenda. The 
Cambodian people are now more environmentally conscious and well aware of climate 
change and thanks to a sustained commitment of the Royal Government , climate change and 
sustainable development have been increasingly placed in our core national socio -economic 
development agenda, called the Rectangular Strategy -Phase IV. Our infrastructures are 
designed based on new guidelines to ensure they are climate -resilient. Renewable energy has 
enjoyed unprecedented investments and the share of solar energy in our energy mix should 
reach 20% by 2022 and ou r latest price has reached a record low of 3.8 US Dollar cents per 
kilowatt -hour. We have managed to generate some revenues from keeping our forest standing 
via REDD+ projects , and our REDD+ strategy has been finalized, including a costed 
investment plan. 
 
7. We have also boosted our capacities to access international climate finance, and the first 
Cambodian direct access entity was accredited by the GCF last month. Given its stringent 
standards, this is a significant achievement for a public sector agency in an LDC. Such an 
accreditation will enable the Cambodian G overnment to access and effectively channel 
climate finance to local governments for building verifiable climate change adaptation for the 
benefits of the most vulnerable populations . 
 
8. Cambodia has joined the NDC partnership this year and is committed to submitting an 
updated NDC in 2020, including concrete, costed plans to achieve our climate objectives, and 
an improved transparency framework. We look forward to working with our partners on this 
enhanced document, and most importantly, on its financing and implementation, sta rting next 
year. 
 
9. Despite these positive developments on our part, international climate finance is not yet at the 
required scale, particularly for adaptation, and remains difficult to access for the most climate 
vulnerable countries. We call on develop ed countries to increase their contributions to 
financial mechanisms under the Convention, including GCF, LDCF and the Adaptation Fund. 
We also call on the GCF board and secretariat to maintain their efforts to fast -track and 
simplify access to both readin ess and implementation finance for LDCs, particularly for 
adaptation. These are among what is basically required if the goals of the Paris Agreement as 
well as the Agenda 2030 are to be realised. 
 
10. Finally, I strong ly hope that our negotiations here will deliver the concrete outcomes toward 
the implementation of the Paris Agreement, as we enter a crucial year for advancing global 
ambition and actions. 
 
Thank you ! 