1. I’m delighted to join you all here in this Conference in Glasgow . The Cambodian 
delegation appreciates and thank s the United Kingdom and all those involved for 
making this crucial meeting possible. 
2. This is our unprecedented gathering. Unprecedented because of COVID -19. 
Unprecedented also because climate change is no longer a hearsay. 
3. Climate change, like pandemics, has no border, and our presence here signifies 
shared concerns and reassurance that, as world leaders, we are not losing sight of 
our shared responsibility for climate action.  
4. Cambodia feels the crises directly and takes them seriously . To prevent the spread 
and mitigate the impacts of COVID -19, we have comprehensive vaccination , strict 
health and social measures being put in place . Still, new variants remain a threat, 
making our socio -economic recovery challenging. Such crises require stronger 
international solidarity and cooperation, both bilateral and multilateral, including 
financi al supports and investments from developed to developing countries to enable 
a new path toward resilient growth as well as public well-being and health 
protection . 
5. Cambodia, a low emission country , is strong ly commit ted to do ing our share in the 
global efforts. Full peace and political stability have permitted steady economic 
growth averaged over 7% per annum , thus allowing us to make increasing 
contribut ions. 
6. We have tripled our climate budgets in the last five years, now around 2% of the 
GDP. 
7. We have commissioned over 400 MW of utility -scale solar energy, representing 
15% of our energy mix. 
8. We submitted NDC update targeting around 4 2% in emissions reduction by 2030. 
Our national total biomass is bigger than ever before. 
9. We are increasing share of clean energy , not developing any new coal power plants 
and not constructing any new hydropower dam along the Mekong River. 
10. We are also for mulating a Long -Term Strategy for Carbon Neutrality to promote 
activities that can deliver low carbon, climate resilient, and inclusive growth. This 
also will help us seize the opportunities of green economy – a major driver of 
growth, investment, and innovation in the coming decades. 
11. I acknowledge the progress made since the Paris Agreement. Updated NDCs have 
shown increased climate ambition . Large economies have set net zero emissions 
targets . Private and public investments in green technologies have risen. 
12. Still, we remain concerned that the level of commitments falls far short of the 1.5°C 
target, which puts us on a dangerous path, particularly for the post -COVID recovery 
in LDC s. 
13. International climate finance is also far from the required scale, particularly for 
adaptation, and difficult to access for the most climate vulnerable countries. We call 
for developed countries to increase their contributions to financial mechanisms 
under the Convention, and to further f acilitate direct access to the funds. Otherwise , 
promoting sustainable and climate resilient infrastructures, disaster management 
capabilities , and low-carbon development in LDCs would barely be an empty talk. 
14. We expect this COP to address these issues, so pledges become actions. We also 
hope the Paris Agreement implementation guidelines , including a strong set of rules 
for carbon markets under Article 6 , will be finalized here , to encourage forest 
protection and promote sustainable financing for adaptation and mitigation 
activities. 
15. Now that w e enter the crucial decade of action en visioned by the Paris Agreement, 
it is not a time for hesitation or half -measures , but for ambition, decisiveness, and 
implementation. 
16. I hope COP26 will mark a new era for climate action, at the scale and speed needed 
for the well -being of our people. 
17. Finally, I wish COP26 a fruitful success. 
Thank you ! 