
Canada is ready to move from words to action.  
 
 
 In the early days of COP28, we announced the 
world’s most ambitious national methane 
regulations for our oil and gas sector , which will 
allow us to meet , and likely exceed, our target 
of at least 75 per cent reductions in emissions 
by 2030. 
 
On Thursday , we released a cap on all GHG 
emissions from the oil -and-gas sector … 
…a cap that ensures real reductions down to 
net-zero by 2050.  
 
It is the first emissions cap from a major oil and 
gas producing nation in the world . 

 Colleagues, keeping 1.5C within reach requires 
treating nature as our strongest ally. That’s why 
I am proud to say that Canada intends to 
introduce a federal nature accountability Act in 
2024 . 
 
 
With this Act, we would establish an 
accountability framework in line with our 
biodiversity commitments under the Kunming -
Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework.  
 
 
At this COP, let’s make climate and nature 
action mutually reinforcing.  
 
 I am committed to working with all of you to 
make COP28 a bout the energy transition , 
where we agree to the phase out of unabated 
fossil fuels and put an end to fossil fuels 
subsidies.  
 
Last summer, Canada became the fi rst G20 
country to make good on its commitment to 
phase out those subsidies , 2 years ahead of the 
2025 deadline .   
 
Our ambition will be measure d by the strength 
of our partnerships and collaboration. 
 
That’s why we must increase all sources of 
financing. 
 
 According to the OECD, contributors likely met 
the 100 billion goal last year , but we must 
continue to do much more. 
 
At COP28, let’s agree to scale up climate 
finance from domestic, international, public, and 
private sources , as we did together last year for 
the protection of nature at COP 15. 
 
 
2023 has been the hottest in record.  
 
 
 I refuse to believe that our differences are going 
to close the small window we have to keep 1.5 
within reach , and to increase resilience and 
adaptative capacity. 
 
Here , in Dubai, Canada will use every possible 
opportunity to partner, learn and cooperate to 
deliver the necessary action to meet the goals 
of the Paris Agreement . 
 
Thank you. 