We are the first generation to broadly experience the impacts of climate change. We are the first 
generation to understand the solutions and have committed to each do our part. And as the IPCC 
1.5 degree report (which we welcome) makes clear - we are the last generation to be able to act 
to prevent the worst impacts. 
Canadians know this. In just the past few years floods in Calgary, Toronto and the Atlantic; 
a heat wave killing nearly a 
hundred people in Montreal; unprecedented forest fires throughout Canada; serious drought in 
Manitoba; and destructive tornadoes near my home town in Ottawa. We see climate change in 
the loss of habitat, species extinction, poorer air quality, easier disease transmission, and forced 
migration for millions of people around the world. These impacts are very real for people with 
serious financial, health and emotional effects. 

 Working over a year with provinces and territories, Indigenous Peoples and with input with Ca-
nadians, we developed an ambitious made -in-Canada climate plan.  
Starting next year, it will no longer be free to pollute, anywhere in Canada. It is now more obvi-
ous than ever that pollution simply cannot be free if we want less of it. That is why we are put-
ting a price on pollution from coast to coast to coast. And we are helping Canadians adjust to this 
new reality . It is critically important that as we take a people -centred approach by ensuring that 
life in a low-carbon economy is affordable.  Many provinces and territories have risen to the 
challenge of pricing pollution. But where we have to act where provinces have not, we will im-
plement pollution pricing that will provide every adult and every child a Climate Action Incen-
tive. 
Pricing pollution is one of more than 50 measures Canada is taking at home to cut pollution. We 
are also eliminating coal-fired electri city, regulating pollution from the oil and gas sector, and 
investing in renewable energy and grid infrastructure to achieve our goal of 90% clean electricity 
by 2030. We are making historic investments in public transportation and green infrastructure. 
We are investing in energy efficiency so businesses and families can save money. We are also 
working with business and entrepreneurs to tap into the $26 trillion dollar global opportunity of 
clean technology.  These are just a few of the ways we’re preparing for the future and creating 
good jobs in the process. 
We are also working to increase ambition at home and abroad.  That is why we are committed to 
doubling the amount of nature that we protect which will help both mitigate and adapt to climate 
change. We are also developing a zero plastic waste strategy, which will reduce emissions and 
also tackle plastic pollution in our oceans and rivers.  Internationally , Canada and the United Kingdom 
launched the Powering Past Coal Alliance to help support countries to commit to phasing out of 
coal. We know we have to do this in a way that supports coal workers and coal communities, 
because the transition is not always easy. We also fostered other powerful multilateral initiatives 
like the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition and the Climate and Clean Air Coalition. 
At the centre of Canada’s clean growth plan is people. Each and every day, as an elected repre-
sentative, I need to remember who I work for - moms and dads, kids, people working hard. The 
actions we take to tackle pollution need to also create tangible benefits for people - new jobs 
today and jobs for our kids; more affordable and convenient ways of getting to work; healthier 
air and cleaner water; and lower costs to power and heat our homes.  

Here in Katowice, we are at a turning point and it’s critical we keep up momentum. Canada is 
determined that we finalize a Paris Agreem ent Rulebook that will ensure the effective, ambitious 
and transparent implementation of the Paris Agreement. I am encouraged that all Parties have 
come to Katowice willing to make that happen. I believe that we can leave Katowice with a rule-
book that will set clear guidelines on how we can implement our plans and send clear market 4 
 signals that drive clean innovation and clean growth, so that not only are we creating a safer fu-
ture but a more prosperous one for our kids and grandkids.  

On transparency we support time limited flexibility for countrie s that truly need it, understanding 
that some developing countries need capacity building support in order to accurately and trans-
parently report their emissions.  
With respect to finance, Canada remains committed to delivering on its $2.65 Billion contrib u-
tion. Over $1.2 Billion has been deployed to date.  

We know there is much work to be done. But we are confident a consensus based solution can be 
found. Quite frankly, we have no choice but to find the solutions. 5 
 Climate change is happening quickly and there’s not much time left to turn the ship. Right here, 
right now, in Poland the actions and consensus we reach will have a lasting impact on our ability 
to tackle climate change. We are all in this boat together. Let us act with urgency and integrity 
and foresight so that history may look back on us kindly and know that here, in Poland, we did 
what was necessary to set the course. 