Papua New Guinea on Behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations 
Glasgow Climate Change Conference 
 
High -Level Segment 
 
Statement  
 
7 November 2021 
 
Thank you , Mr. President , 
 
Papua New Guinea has the hono r to speak on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest 
Nations. 
 
At the outset, we align ourselves with the statement made by Guinea on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 
 
Mr. President, as the latest IPCC study indicated, the effects of climate change are 
much more severe than anybody ever imagined. Achieving the 1.5 -degree 
threshold as defined by the IPCC is a therefore a must and COP26 must deliver! 
 
Mr. President let’s be clear. The 1.5-degree goal is unattainable without REDD+ and 
full consideration of the world’s rainforests . Dramatically slowing global 
deforestation is needed and the REDD+ Mechanism is singularly designed to 
achieve that goal. 
 
Article 5 of the Paris Agreement define s REDD+ as the only mechanism to 
implement forestry activities. Whether it is deforestation, degradation or 
conservation, REDD+ is our north star. It is based on a set of decisions that have 
been agreed and are now being implemented . 
 
Developing countries are now hard at work on Article 5 which should not be re -
opened! Our work to date should not be disrupted! 
 
Mr. President, environmental integrity must be at the core of our work and the 
Glasgow outcome must be built on this principle. REDD+ dec isions already ensure 
a high level of environmental integrity and all other sectors should be based on 
the same rules , notably national GHG inventorie s and national reference levels . The Papua New Guinea on Behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations 
same stringency should be reflected in Article 6 guidance as this is a critical 
condition for the private sector to engage with the Paris Agreement. 
 
The last elements of the Enhanced Transparency Framework created by the Paris 
Agreement must include clear and simple decisions that are consistent with 
previously agreed rul es. Emission reductions or removals not included in our NDCs, 
national monito ring system and GHG inventor ies must not qualify for international 
transfer . 
 
Mr. President, Rainforest nations have already delivered more than 9Gts of GHG 
emissions reductions . This is an astounding figure and proof that the REDD+ 
mechanism has been of immediate benefit. These actions deserve to be adequately 
rewarded so that we can continue to effectively address the global climate 
emergency . For th is reason, we call for clarity that REDD+ results are included in 
the definition of ITMOs. 
 
As agreed back in Katowice agreed REDD+ MRV is concurrent to the new 
Transparency process . To avoid redundancy , the rules on Article 6.2 must be 
consistent with this approach . 
 
Mr. President, adaptation is of utmost importance for our countries. We must 
agree on a clear plan to define the global goal on adaptation . Adaptation finance 
should not be a small percentage of mitigation; it s hould be real , predictable and 
at scale. Finance for adaptation projects should come exclusively from developed 
countries . 
 
As Article 6.2 is a critical tool allowing countries to fulfill their NDCs, it should 
include incentives for early , pre -2020 REDD+ actions and should only include 
activities inside their respective NDCs . This is the only way to reach the 1.5C goa l. 
REDD+ is part of the Paris Agreement. The CDM is part of the past. 
 
Mr. President, we have all made sacrifices attend COP 26, trav elling during a global 
pandemic. It is therefore imperative that we respect all views and engage all parties 
to make Glasgow a success. As usual, you can count on us and our support to deliver 
what is world is expecting. 
 
Thank you, Mr. President . 
 Papua New Guinea on Behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations 
 
 