RLEA, MTZ
RiP A BH BAW
—— BERAPAES | hee

PRARHKPRER agp
(20214 11818)

AAR A 2 OS A,
CRU AGE
Honourable Prime Minister Boris Johnson,
Colleagues,

It gives me great pleasure to attend the World Leaders Summit and
discuss ways to address the climate challenge. As we speak, the adverse
impacts of climate change have become increasingly evident, presenting a
growing urgency for global action. How to respond to climate change and
revive the world economy are challenges of our times that we must meet.

First, we need to uphold multilateral consensus. When it comes to
global challenges such as climate change, multilateralism is the right
prescription. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its
Paris Agreement provide the fundamental legal basis for international
cooperation on climate. Parties need to build on existing consensus,

increase mutual trust, step up cooperation and work together to deliver a
successful COP26 in Glasgow.

Second, we need to focus on concrete actions. Visions will come
true only when we act on them. Parties need to honour their commitments,
set realistic targets and visions, and do their best according to national
conditions to deliver their climate action measures. Developed countries
should not only do more themselves, but should also provide support to
help developing countries do better.

Third, we need to accelerate the green transition. It is important to
harness innovations in science and technology to transform and upgrade
our energy and resources sectors as well as the industrial structure and
consumption pattern, promote a greener economy and society, and explore
a neew pathway forward that coordinates development with conservation. 

Collegues,
Guided by the vision of a community of life for man and Nature,
China will continue to prioritize ecological conservation and pursue a
green and low-carbon path to development. We will foster a green,
low-carbon and circular economic system at a faster pace, press ahead
with industrial structure adjustment, and rein in the irrational
development of energy-intensive and high-emissions projects. We will
speed up the transition to green and low-carbon energy, vigorously
develop renewable energy, and plan and build large wind and
photovoltaic power stations. Recently, China released two directives:
Working Guidance for Carbon Dioxide Peaking and Carbon Neutrality in
Full and Faithful Implementation of the New Development Philosophy,
and the Action Plan for Carbon Dioxide Peaking Before 2030. Specific
implementation plans for key areas such as energy, industry, construction
and transport, and for key sectors such as coal, electricity, iron and steel,
and cement will be rolled out, coupled with supporting measures in terms
of science and technology, carbon sink, fiscal and taxation, and financial
incentives. Taken together, these measures will form a “1+N” policy
framework for delivering carbon peak and carbon neutrality, with
clearly-defined timetable, roadmap and blueprint.

Ancient Chinese believe that “successful governance relies on solid
action”. I hope all parties will take stronger actions to jointly tackle the
climate challenge and protect the planet, the shared home for us all.

Thank you.
