Distinguished colleagues,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

China associates itself with the statement made by Thailand on behalf of the G77
and China. We thank our host, the Government and People of Morocco for their
work in preparing this Conference. The Paris Agreement is a mile-stone achievement
in the multilateral Process on climate change. The Marrakech Conference is an
important occasion to celebrate the entry into force of the Agreement, as well as a
Crucial starting point in the implementation of the package outcome of the Paris
Conference. China stands ready to join all parties in making this conference a
success.

First, implementing the Paris Agreement and planning the future. Thanks to our
collective efforts, the Paris Agreement enters into force as of the 4" of November.
The speed with which the Agreement enters into force is not only a miracle in the
global governance, but also a reflection of the overwhelming global trend towards
green and low-carbon transition. We must take advantage of this positive
momentum, scale up our actions, strengthen our cooperation, and contribute to
the well-being of the whole mankind and of the future generations. China is ready
to join all parties in drawing the plan for and following through various negotiations
under the Paris Agreement in accordance with the Principles of equity, common but
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. At the same time, we call
on States Parties that have not done so to accellerate their ratification of the 
Paris Agreement to make it a climate change regime with wide global participation.

Second, honouring commitment and consolidating mutual trust. All parties should
speed up the delivery of their pre-2020 commitments in order to build mutual trust
as the basis for the post-2020 implementation of the Agreement and enhanced
actions. Parties concerned must accelerate the ratification of the Doha
Amendment on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The
developed countries must revisit and increase their emission reduction ambitions
under the Convention or in the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.
They must deliver on their commitments towards the developing countries in the
areas of finance, technology and capacity building. China hopes that the Facilitative
Dialogue on the pre-2020 actions can achieve substantive outcomes which will
provide pragmatic and effective solutions to the pre-2020 enhanced actions on
emission reduction, adaptation, finance, and technology.

Third, increasing support and improving capacity. The developed countries must
truly honour the commitment of providing 100 billion US dollars per year to the
developing countries by 2020. They should further improve the roadmap on finance,
and using the target of 100 billion US dollar per year as the basis, submit as soon as
possible their post-2020 financial contribution and targets. Technological
innovation will be the key to offset any future gap in the emission reduction
ambitions. It is important to strengthen joint R&D and technology demonstration
work. The developed countries should speed up the transfer of relevant
technologies to the developing countries. This conference must arrive at a package
outcome on capacity building aimed at improving the developing countries’
capacities in the areas of early-warning, disaster prevention and reduction,
infrastructure, policy management, statistics and accounting, and access to finance,
etc.

The Chinese Government considers it an inherent requirement under China’s own
Sustainable development to address the climate Change and Shoulders its share of
"esponsibility for the common destiny Of the human race. By 2015, the Per-unit Co2
Emissions of China’s GDP had declined by about 38% Over 2005, representing an
Equivalent reduction in Co2 emission of 4.1 billion tons. Non-fossil accounted
for as much as 12% of primary energy and forest stocks had increased in volume
by over 2.1 billion cubic metres.

In order to implement its nationally determined contributions (NDCs), China has
set itself the binding target of 18% reduction of CO2 emissions per unit of GDP
for the period of 2015-2020 and will strive to exceed the target of 45% reduction
in CO2 emissions per unit of GDP by 2020 against 2005, in preparation for the peaking
of CO2 emissions around 2030 or earlier. By 2020, aggregate energy consumption will
be limited to 5 billion tons of standard coal equivalent or less, energy consumption
per unit of GDP will decline by 15% over 2015 and non-fossil energy will account
for 15%. Efforts will be made towards installing a capacity of 340 million kilowatts 
of conventional hydropower, 200 million kilo watts of wind power, 100 million 
kilowatts of photovoltaic powar and as much as 58 million kilowatts of nuclear power 
in addition to over 30 million kilowatts of nuclear power capacity under construction.
A carbon emission trading market will be launched in CHina in 2017. China has
launched the China Fund for South-South Cooperation on Climate Change. In developing
countries, China is implementing 10 low-carbon demonstration zones,
100 mitigation and adaptation projects on climate change and a cooperation project
of 1000 places in training courses on addressing climate change.  

Ladies and gentlemen,
China is ready to work with other parties in creating a fair, effective and win-win
global climate governance regime and in promoting global green and low-carbon transitions
and innovative paths to development and is readty to make greater contributions 
to this end.

thank you for your attention. 

