 
Address by Mr. Phil Hogan, T.D., 
Minister for the Environment, Community and Local 
Government, Ireland 
at 
COP 19, Warsaw, 20th November 2013 
 
Thank you Mr. President. 
As a member of the European Union, Ireland associate s itself 
with the statements made by Commissioner Connie Hedegaard 
and the Lithuanian Presidency on behalf of the EU and its 
Member States. 
The recent Working Group One report from the IPCC serves as 
a timely reminder of the threat we all face from climate change, 
and of our collective respo nsibility to mobilise a comprehensive, 
global response.  I want to assure you , Mr. President, that w e 
have come here, to the beautiful city of Warsaw, focussed and 
committed to supporting your efforts to take a signifi cant step 
towards agreement on a new c limate treaty at COP 21 in Paris 
in two year s’ time.  Our starting point must be clear and concrete progress on pre -
2020 mitigation ambition , to ensure that we give ourselves the 
best possible chance of creating the post -2020 world we all 
want – a world t hat is safe and sustainable for all people and 
for future generations. 
Here in Warsaw , we must map out a clear and convincing path 
to COP 21 . That pa th must ensure that we meet the goal and 
milestones that we ourselves have set; we must deliver on what 
we all agreed to at COP 17 in Durban and COP 18 in Doha. 
Mr. President, a lot of work to enhance implementation of the 
Convention has already been achieved with, for example, the 
strengthening of the institutional arrangements for adaptation 
and means of imp lementation. Tha t work must continue. We 
can make tangible progress here on adaptation , climate 
finance, transparency of action, market mechanisms , and 
institutional arrangements on Loss and Damage. 
On a n issue of particular importance for Ireland, we had hoped 
to see progress here in Warsaw on a work programme for 
agriculture . Whether addressed from a mitigation or adaptation 
perspective, it is a critically important issue for all Parties. As a 
leading agriculture economy , Ireland’s priorities and meas ures 
for the land sector, including forests, are to pursue 
development over the long -term that is sustainable on both 
economic and environmental grounds.  To help achieve this, w e need a framework for the land sector 
that includes agriculture and forests in a way that recognises 
the impact of actions in the sector, and consequent emissions 
and removals. The framework should enable mitigation and 
adaptation in the land sector to be included in the 2015 
Agreement. Support for food production and adaptation in the 
post-2020 framework would help to ensure that the land sector 
can contribute to the overall objective of the Convention , while 
protecting rural livelihoods and rural development. 
Turning to climate finance , Mr. President, Ireland is delivering . 
In spite of very challenging economic circumstances , we have 
delivered on our voluntary fast-start finance commitment . 
Ireland’s Climate funding is completely made up of grants and 
is focused on the poorest communities of the Least Developed 
Countries. It is clear to me that those most affected , struggle 
each day to adapt to the affects of Climate Change on 
agriculture, livelihoods and family wellbeing and we must 
redouble our efforts to support them. The Government of 
Ireland has recently approved an additiona l €1.4 million to 
strengthen capacity in Least Developed Countries and to 
support the Least Developed Countries Fund, as well as 
support ing climate -resilient development in countries such as 
Uganda , Mozambique, Ethiopia Lesotho and Zambia.  We want to see progress on climate finance here in Warsaw 
and public finance as an essential part of the solution . But so 
too is private finance , which we must mobilise, along with 
funding from innovative sources . 
Mr. President, our challenge is great and our work is urg ent. 
As I said at the outset, we are focussed on the need for 
progress , and we are committed to supporting you in shaping 
and guiding a significant step forward.  
Thank you 
 