1 
 
19th CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES 
TO THE FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
UNFCCC/CMP9 
 
 
 
STATEMENT TO THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT 
 
 
 
by 
 
   
HONOURABLE FAAMOETAULOA LEALAIAULOTO TAITO DR FAALE TUMAALII 
MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT 
INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA 
      
Warsaw, Poland, 21 November 2013
 
 
 
 
2 
 Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
The vulnerability of Pacific islands to extreme weather events is a fact. 
Scientific information from the Intergovernmental Pane l on Climate Change 
(IPCC 5th Assessment report) confirms that increased storage of thermal 
energy in the tropical oc eans from climate change will result in tropical 
cyclones increasing in their intensity. And the likelihood of extreme natural 
disaster events such as Super Typhoo n Haiyan can be expected to occur 
more frequently in a future where human induced warming of the oceans 
continues to grow. 
 
Climate change is theref ore an existential issue for Samoa and other low-
lying islands – hence our strong supp ort towards finalizing of a new, 
universal, ambitious legally bind ing agreement within the agreed 
timeframes to reflect the science under the ADP with an effective and 
equitable compliance regime. 
 Mr. President Genuine partnerships are indispen sable and a necessity in all our 
development efforts and actions to try and mitigate agains t the impacts of 
climate change. Samoa is grateful to its development partners who share 
and believe in its concern by providin g much needed resources to increase 
our resilience to climate change impacts. 
 
The roles of the GEF, Adaptation Fund and GCF are even more critical now 
in ensuring that real money flows expe ditiously to the neediest of parties. 3 
 The urgent and timely replenishment of these Funds is vital, as such 
support is critical, without which our adaptive capacity will remain 
constrained and our decision to emba rk on an ambitious but essential 
undertaking to be carbon-neutral in 2020 would not be realized. The 
centrality of partnerships to Samo a’s sustainable development is the 
underpinning why we had proposed as the overarching theme of the 3rd 
global conference on SIDS that we are privileged to host in September 
2014 “the sustainable development of SIDS through genuine and durable 
partnerships”. 
 
Climate change, and trying to cope with its impacts is a long term commitment. It is a costly preo ccupation – hence the adequacy, 
predictability and the timely availa bility of resources assume greater 
significance or we risk weakening ou r resilience acquired over years. 
Notwithstanding what the Warsaw COP is able to deliver, one remains 
optimistic that we can continue to co unt on the support of our partners and 
our established multilateral mechanisms as we all share a common concern and a common cause. Mr. President, (Loss and Damage) 
It was in Cancun in 2010 (COP 16 ) that Parties to the UN Climate 
Convention were mandated to agre e on actions to address loss and 
damage. Last year in Doha, we agreed to use the Warsaw Conference to 
set up the institutional arrangements under the Convention to address this 
important issue. 4 
 T h a t t i m e i s n o w . W e n e e d t o establish the Warsaw International 
Mechanism to address loss and dama ge, and remove the prevalent and 
convenient attempt by some to co nfuse “disaster relief” with “full 
recovery”. Disaster relief humanitari an assistance of an immediate and 
temporary nature for basic survival, wh ile “full recovery” addresses the full 
return to “pre-extreme event situations”.  
On a more practical notion, a proces s focused on rene wable energy and 
energy efficiency involving submissi ons, technical papers and expert 
workshops will ensure fuller understa nding of the realities of additional 
pressures now faced by the most vu lnerable among us in this room 
because of climate change exacerbate d di saste r s. About 12 m o nths ago , 
Samoa was hit by Cyclone Evan which was unprecedented in severity and 
damages it caused. The cost to us in terms of Loss and Damage was well 
in excess of US$300 million that has set our economic development many 
years back. Mr President, Let me return to the central issu e that we continuously face – ambition – 
or the lack of it especially by countr ies with the capacity, the resources and 
best placed with the leadership role to lead, have continuously fallen short. 
The painful reality is that despite all our efforts in the ye ars leading up to 
Doha to achieve legally binding commitments, which we all said we 
wanted, only four Parties have ratifi ed the Doha Amendment, and none is 
a developed country Party. The truth is , we do not have in place a legally 5 
 binding second commitment period. He nceforth, 2014 is a year of great 
expectations and a time fo r true leadership. A number of Annex B Parties 
are well towards achieving their comm itments - largely because these were 
not ambitious targets in th e first place. We expect the progress they had 
made to date be reflected in 2014 in commitments to deeper emission 
reductions for the second commitment period, through adjustments to their Quantified Emission Level Reduct ions Options (QELROs) over the next 
12 months. 
 
Mr. President, 
The Pacific island leaders made a commi tment in August this year in the 
Majuro Declaration for Climate chan ge. Their message is simple but 
powerful. Being small and isolated with limited resource-base should not be 
a disadvantage. While adaptation effo rts against the impacts of climate 
change remain a priority for us, we are not limiting ourselves to adaptation 
projects only. In Samoa, we always believe that ambition must begin at 
home. We have to be part of the glob al solution by putting our own house 
in order first through positive contri butio ns wit hi n o ur me a ns. T hus as a 
government, we have established a National Green House Gas Abatement 
Strategy premised on a low carbon development pathway that is easily 
transformed into a comprehensive Nation ally Appropriate Mitigation Actions 
(NAMA) programme towards a carbon ne utral energy sector. We also have 
exceeded our National Energy Policy target for renewable energy sourcing. 
The scale of our effort will be negligible at the global level, but being able 6 
 to showcase positive examples and be ing part of the solution, instead of 
the problem is important to our country. 
 I highlight this to underscore both the magnitude and cost of climate 
change and the fact that SIDS like Sa moa are right up th ere with the rest 
doing our share, often at great expense, to mitigate emissions and adapt 
to the adverse effects of climate ch ange within the confines of our 
resources.  
 
Mr. President, 
Let me conclude by reminding this conf erence, that so long as we try to 
respond to the symptoms of climat e change, and not address its root 
causes, and as long as vested and na rrow interests dictate our national 
actions, the price we pay for indecisive ness and inaction in human lives lost 
and material costs will continue to escalate exponentially beyond any one 
country’s capacity to cope alone. Finally, we express much appreciation to the government and people of 
Poland for their kind hospitality, and commend the organisers of the 
meeting for its excellent arrangements. 
 
Thank you. 