On behalf of the Zambian delegation, allow me to join other
speakers who have spoken before me in congratulating you, on
your election as President of COP 19. I also wish to thank your
government and the people of Poland for the warm hospitality my
delegation has enjoyed since our arrival in this beautiful city of
Warsaw.

From the outset, I wish to assure you of Zambia's total support in
ensuring that this Conference succeeds in delivering tangible
outcomes, which will help save our planet.

Let me also, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of
Zambia, express our deepest sympathy to the people of the
Republic of Philippines on loss of life as a result of the typhoon
Haiyan. 

Allow me to outline our specific expectations from COP 19:

1. Commencement of concrete works under the Ad hoc Working
Group on the Durban Platform to develop a protocol, another legal
instrument or an agreed outcome with legal force under the
Convention applicable to all Parties;

2. A clear pathway and strategy on how to mobilise long term
finance as well as approaches for mobilising scaled up climate
finance to $100 billion per year by 2020; and,

3. An agreement on institutional mechanisms to address loss and
damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to
the adverse impacts of climate change.

Mr. President,

Zambia, like other developing countries including the Least
Developed Countries (LDCs) and Small Island Developing States
(SIDs), believes that the Nineteenth Session of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change presents another
opportunity for Parties to demonstrate their commitment to tackle
the global problem of climate change.

Addressing the global problem of climate change requires provision
of means of implementation including technology, finance and capacity
building.

This Conference needs to provide political reassurance and deliver
significantly on the means of implementation, as a confidence
building measure.

It is our expectation that the outcome at this important
Conference will respond to the urgent needs of Africa and other
developing countries, and in the process reaffirm the international
community’s recognition and continued support for the multilateral
process.

My Government is also cognizant of the fact that the launching of
a process to develop a protocol, another legal instrument or an
agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention was an
important milestone in the history of the negotiations. It presents
an opportunity to the global community to deliver a tangible
product in 2015 that will safeguard the planet.

In this regard, the Warsaw Conference needs to immediately
commence actual works on the development of a new agreement
under the Convention and deliver the negotiation text in Lima,
Peru.

Zambia wishes to reiterate that the elements of the new
agreement should reflect the principles and the provisions of the
Convention, including the principle of Common but differentiated
responsibilities and respective capabilities and equity.

It should be based on science, ensure equitable access to
sustainable development and sharing of atmospheric space and
resources, taking into account cumulative historical responsibility.

Mr. President,

The success of the negotiations on the Convention will depend on
commitments agreed by the Parties on finance, adaptation,
mitigation, technology and capacity building.

On adaptation, we note the progress that has been made towards
the implementation of the Cancun Adaptation Framework through
establishment of the Adaptation Committee and implementation of
their work plan. The other major achievement include an
agreement on a work programme to consider approaches to
address loss and damage associated with climate change impacts
in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the
adverse effects of climate change.

The Warsaw conference, therefore, needs to finalise the modalities
for full implementation of the work plan of the Adaptation
Committee to ensure that the Committee plays its role in
facilitating the implementation of adaptation projects and
programmes at country level. Furthermore, we expect the
developed Country Parties to scale up the provision of sustainable
financial resources, technology and capacity-building to support
the implementation of adaptation actions in developing countries
in accordance with the provision of the Convention.

Financing both adaptation and mitigation requires huge amounts of 
resources, which should be made readily available to the most 
vulnerable developing countries. It is our considered view that
this Conference needs to deliver substantial long term financing 
for climate change through the capitalisation of the Green Climate
Fund. 

We therefore, call upon the Developed Country Parties to seriously
commit to mobilising long term finance as well as provide approaches 
for scaling up climate finance to 100 billion US dollars per year 
by 2020. 

In order for the most vulnerable countries like Zambia to effectively
address the challenges of climate change, our actions have to be enabled 
by access to technology. Issues of intellectual property rights continue
to be the main barrier to development and transfer of technology. We 
therefore, wish to reiterate the urgent need to address the issue of
technology transfer, including the identification and removal of all barriers
preventing access to climate-related and friendly technologies. 

The important role of forests in mitigating emissions from land use
change cannot be over emphasised. Forests have the potential to
significantly contribute to emissions if not well managed. While
acknowledging the important role of forests in mitigating
emissions, they also play a critical role in supporting the socio-
economic development of the Country.

It is therefore, important that we address immediate trade-offs
and provide sufficient incentives for forest dependent communities
for managing their forests and land use properly.

To this effect, future mechanism addressing this sector needs to
be broad and should focus on empowering forest dependent
communities economically and not only narrowly focusing on
reducing emissions.

As I conclude Mr. President, I wish to assure you of Zambia’s
commitment in supporting your presidency during your tenure and
also as we prepare for COP 20.

I thank you.


