 
 
 
STATEMENT 
 
 
BY 
 
 
H.E ARC. DARIUS DICKSON ISHAKU 
SUPERVISING HONOURABLE MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
 
AT 
 
 
THE OCCASION OF THE 
 
19TH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO 
THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION 
ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
 
AND 
 
THE 9TH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES SERVING AS 
THE MEETING OF PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL 
 
 
WARSAW, POLAND 
 
21 NOVEMBER 2012 
 Mr. President , 
    On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I congratulate you 
on your election as the Presid ent of the 19th session of the 
Conference of Parties to th e United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and assure you of our full 
support as you are leading ou r deliberations. May I also 
express our profound appreciat ion to the Government and 
people of Poland for the warm hospitality accorded to us 
since our arrival in this magnificent city of Warsaw and for 
the excellent arrangement put in place to facilitate our 
work at this important Conference. 
 
Mr. President, 
2. Nigeria is witnessing th e most dangerous impacts of 
Climate Change in the form of regular floods, heat waves 
and expanding desertification in a dimension almost 
unimaginable just a few years ago. We are yet to overcome 
the physical, material an d psychological stresses 
consequent on the devastatin g floods that occurred in 
Nigeria in 2012. Despite the best efforts of the Federal 
and State governments, trem endous challenges still 
remain in the aftermath including that of my fellow 
citizens who are yet to be ad equately resettled. We however give assurance th at as daunting as the 
challenges may be, the Federal Government is 
determined to meet them. 
 
3. Two years after Durban, the process is yet to agree on 
concrete work plan for seriou s discussions of the issues 
contained in the ‘Durban Plat form’ as prescribed in the 
‘Doha Gateway’. 
 
4. Durban offered a window of hope that we could have 
advanced in our combined effort s to combat the threat of 
climate change. The Doha Gate way provided a road map to 
achieving in 2015 what the pr ocess failed to achieve in 
Copenhagen. The process has been so full of rhetoric to the 
extent that it is increasingly becoming difficult to think of 
any progress being made. The knotty issues include 
mitigation and finance gaps that remain under the Bali 
Action Plan and the Kyoto Prot ocol that must be addressed 
to curb global warming an d keep the world safe. 
 
5. Climate change is increa singly becoming interlinked 
with development with clear indi cations that it is capable of 
slowing down development efforts by the developing countries in general and Africa in particular. Our collective 
resolve to achieve the targets an d avoid a point of no return 
that could lead to catast rophic consequences for our 
environment envisioned on sci ence should be brought to 
bear in the course of our deli berations in this Conference. 
Nigeria calls for concerted an d collaborative efforts of all 
concerned Parties to meet their respective commitments 
and obligations while operat ionalizing the Copenhagen 
Accord, the Cancun Agreemen t and the Durban Platform 
for Enhanced Action. 
 
6. We have indeed agreed to the post-2012 commitment 
to the Kyoto Protocol. However , the issue of New Market 
Mechanism still lacks clarity. Yes, we embraced the Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM) as a flexible mechanism to 
provide a platform for emissi on reduction efforts between 
the developed and the developing countries. But we ask - Is 
it a back door of replacin g CDM and put Africa at a 
disadvantage when indeed they have adopted the 
mechanism?  
 
7. It is imperative for this body to ensure that 
African country Parties are not shortchanged again through the creation of another mechanism that 
would take time to understa nd when we all appreciate 
that timely actions is of essence in the fight against 
climate change. Too much time has been consumed 
while elaborating Reducing Emission from 
Deforestation and Land Degradation (REDD+) 
mechanism. Nigeria calls fo r operationalization of the 
mechanism as packaged now that the group has 
completed its work programme. In addition, efforts 
must be intensified with re spect to renewable energy 
drives in Africa.  
 
 Mr. President , 
8. We need to make progress. Progress in this sense 
and in this process requ ires utmost transparency and 
openness. Nigeria is firmly committed to seeing that 
current areas of contentions wi th respect to the financial 
mechanism, adaptation framework and institutional 
arrangements, technology transf er and capacity building 
are resolved to the benefit of all Parties. We need to 
urgently move from the design phase of the Green Climate 
Change Fund (GCF) to th e operational phase. 
 9. Nigeria calls for urgency in implementing all the 
commitments and actions towa rds reducing the levels of 
emission both under the Co nvention and its Protocol 
through enhanced level of ambition with respect to 
emission reduction targets. Warsaw must craft a decision 
on how to ensure th at finance is predict able, reliable and 
sustainable both in the pr e- and post- 2020 period to 
enhance the implementation of the Convention by 
developing countries while th ey grow their development 
pathways with low carbon intensity footprints. 
Mr. President, 
10. Significant decisions have to be taken here in Warsaw 
to pave way for Lima and make 2015 realistic in Paris. 
Durban Platform must have an outcome agreement 
that is legally-binding in nature, which reinforces a 
fair, multilateral and rule s-based regime guided by 
science; that brings into e ffect the right to equitable 
access to sustainable deve lopment, the sharing of 
atmospheric space and resour ces with the principle of 
equity reflected in all asp ects of the elements in its 
contents. 
 11. Finally, Mr. President , science has proved beyond 
reasonable doubt the certainty of climate change. So, are 
we standing collectively to ensure that the outcome of 
this Conference comprehe nsively address what we 
need to do as prescribed by the science to deal with 
fundamental challenges of climate change? It is the 
hope of the Nigerian delegation th at this is the case, and we 
are here in Warsaw, prepared to work with all Parties in a 
spirit of collaboration and cooperation with a view to 
achieving the outcome that will be of benefit to mankind 
today, tomorrow and we ll into the future. 
 
12. I thank you. 