 Mr. President, distinguished Ministers, Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen,  On behalf of the People and the Government of Brazil, I would like to express our deepest appreciation to the People and Government of Poland for your hospitality as hosts of the 2013 United Nations Conference on Climate Change.  Please allow me to present my heartfelt condolences to the people and Government of the Philippines, for the loss of lives caused by yet another eloquent indication that the effects of climate change are upon us.  As in past Conferences, Brazil comes to Warsaw with a diverse, multi-stakeholder delegation. We are proud to have as part of our delegation members of our Congress, civil society, the private sector, academia and youth.  Mr. President,  Ambition must be the driving force behind the actions we all strive for. This is true for Warsaw. This is true for Lima. This is true for Paris and beyond. Ambition is the only element truly capable of delivering  the enhanced regime the world direly needs. Ambitions the only way developed and developing countries, rich and poor, large and small, will be able to converge views and truly work together an effective, just, inclusive and balanced answer to the ever growing predicament of climate change.  Brazil came to Warsaw with ambition in mind. We came prepared, with proposals and submissions to foster ambition both before and after 2020. Brazil came willing to listen, to share its views, to learn, and to help bring positions to a better understanding and promote consensus.  Mr. President,  Our goal is to ensure the success of this Conference and to promote an ambitious, fair, effective and balanced international regime having the Climate Change Convention as its cornerstone. A balanced, well structured and focused work within the Durban Platform is a common challenge that requires vision, understanding and action by all. It is important that our work advances in equal terms, both in workstream I and workstream II, towards a robust and effective implementation of the Convention. We must spare no effort to stimulate urgent and ambitious action by all Parties and thus enhance the implementation of commitments in the pre-2020 period. 	
 
   It is high time for Parties to value the Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol by honoring existing commitments and by implementing decisions adopted in previous Conferences.  Mr. President,  Brazil will continue to drive its development policies by balancing the imperatives of promoting economic growth, social inclusion and the sustainable use of its natural resources. The country has dramatically reduced absolute poverty, incorporating 40 million of its citizens into the middle class, without losing sight of the importance of the conservation and management of its forests and natural assets.  My country, as many others, is going through a process of increasing ubanization. This represents new challenges in many areas, including in facing climate change. We must seize the opportunities that cities provide to mobilize ingenuity and political support in order to set in place sustainable and economically viable solutions in strategic areas such as waste management, public transportation, energy efficiency and sustainable construction The consistent reduction of emissions from land use and forestry reflects our national voluntary commitment to mitigate climate change. In the last ten years, deforestation rates have dropped by over 80%. We have moved forward within the framework of our National Policy on Climate Change and are implementing specific Plans on Mitigation and Adaptation to Climate Change. These plans cover from prevention and control of deforestation in Brazilian forests and savannahs to the expansion of hydroelectric and other sources of renewable energy and the reduction of emissions in industry sector. Over two billion US dollars have been spent this last year on the consolidation of a low greenhouse gas intensity activities in the Agricultural sector. Other mitigation and adaptation plans are being discussed by Government, civil society and representatives of the Brazilian Forum on Climate Change in areas such as mining, health, manufacturing, transport and urban mobility.  Brazil has already achieved very positive results in terms of mitigation, and calls on all countries, most notably developed country Parties, to demonstrate this kind of ambitious engagement. Brazil's NAMAs are to cut emissions by 2020 between 36.1% and 38.9% in relation to BAU, and we will make it.  The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions achieved by Brazil in 2010, in comparison with its 1995 levels, outnumbers the results in emissions reduction achieved by all Annex I countries. 	
 
  Yet these considerable achievements do not mean that the work is finished. The challenge remains to prevent circumstantial reversal scenarios, to sustain constant and daily efforts to deal with traditional as well as new patterns in deforestation and to adjust to new economy-wide emission trends. This year, notwithstanding the continued efforts of the Brazilian Government, an undesired surge in deforestation has been registered in the Brazilian Amazon Region. Our voluntary commitment, now a Brazilian Law is and will continue unabated. Still, this years' rate is the second lowest since such registration begun, twenty five years ago. We are closely examining the reasons for this. It is clear, nevertheless, that beyond vigorous command and control measures, we should set in place effective economic instruments to valuate environmental assets, such as REDD+. Mr. President, The Warsaw Conference must provide an opportunity for Parties to agree to launch domestic processes for the definition of commitments and actions, in the context of the 2015 agreement. This will trigger the setup of national debates on the fight against climate change in all countries. By initiating domestic consultation processes, all countries will be in a better position to present ambitious national contributions to the new agreement under the Convention, and would inform their societies of the challenges that lie ahead. To enhance ambition, countries have to engage in the negotiations with a mandate that includes the support of all stakeholders. Brazil believes that the extent to which each party should contribute to global emissions reduction should be defined domestically, taking into account historical responsibilities, national circumstances and capacities. A science-based reference to each and every countries’ historical responsibilities for climate change will be a particularly important tool in this aspect.  Transparency is an indispensable element in our endeavours. Policies and strategies to combat climate change must be built on the basis of justice and participation.  We have already crossed the acceptable levels of global emissions. Unless all countries can commit now to a substantial and effective contribution to global emissions reduction and adaptation efforts, future actions might come too late. That is why the Brazilian voluntary targets are so ambitious and why we have been so strongly facing this problem in my country. My Delegation submitted for the consideration of Parties a proposal that IPCC be invited to develop a common and simplified methodology to enable Parties to quantify national contributions to climate change on a historical basis. We were happy to see the proposal embraced by developing countries, but saddened and surprised that other parties would not even allow the issue to be discussed here in Warsaw. .Rest assured, we will take this discussion forward, for it is a necessary and urgent one. 	
 	
  Brazil is confident that a decision to establish a permanent and more coordinated architecture for REDD+ financing and results-based payments is within our grasp during this COP. A number of initiatives such as this to provide necessary support to developing countries in their efforts to mitigate their emissions and, especially to adapt to climate change are ready to be implemented. Adaptation measures remain an absolute priority. It calls for the international community's urgent attention and the mobilization of funds and resources to support those that are more vulnerable, to the deprived communities accross the developing world.  My Delegation stands firm with G-77 and China in advancing the agenda of sustainable development, while ensuring environmental integrity. Mr. President,  We are approaching a new phase in the climate change regime, one whose strength we must ensure, framed by the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. It is our firm belief that this crucial global challenge can only be addressed through the multilateral process. We must promote, at all times, the highest possible level of engagement in these negotiations by all Parties. Thank you.  