  1Nineteenth session of the Confer ence of the Parties (COP 19) 
and the Ninth session of the Confer ence of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP 9) 
Warsaw, Poland 
21 November 2013 
 
Statement by  
H.E. Ms. Nino Sharashidze 
First Deputy Minister of Environmen t and Natural Resources Protection 
Georgia 
 
 
Mr. Chairman, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, It is a great honor and pleasure for me to be here. On behalf of the Government of Georgia, I 
w o u l d l i k e t o t h a n k t h e g o v e r n m e n t o f P o l a n d a n d p e o p l e o f P o l a n d f o r h o s t i n g t h e Nineteenth Conference of the Parties of UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
 Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Georgia is a small country; yet, it has shown it self to be committed to taking positive steps 
towards global efforts against climate change. It is the outline of our common future, a future that we share, no matter from which part of th e world and which walk of life we come. It is 
up to each and every one of us how we address the challenges, deal with needs and embrace 
opportunities. It depends on us how we do it individually and as a part of the international 
community.   2Georgia is extremely vulnerable to climate change. Disasters caused by natural hazards are 
characterized by high extensiveness, frequency and risk level. Floods, flash floods, landslides, 
mudflows, snow avalanches, heavy rains, storm winds, droughts, etc. substantially affect the 
national economy. 
Hence, adaptation to the adverse impacts of clim ate change is a priority for the Government 
of Georgia. 
Due to economic collapse in the past, Georgia’ s GHG emissions have decreased from 50 to 13 
million tons of CO2eq. However, with futu re economic growth emissions will increase. 
Georgia is determined to grow its economy through the low-emission path. As such, we have 
started working on a Low Emission Developm ent Strategy, and the identification of 
Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions. 
The second development with th e potential to become a success story is the Covenant of 
Mayors. In Georgia, so far municipalities of seven cities have signed the Covenant of Mayors 
and took the responsibility to reduce GHG em issions by 20% by 2020. These seven cities, 
being the largest cities of our country, represent half of our total population. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
There is a lot of ongoing discussions on the transformational impact, environmental 
integrity, the role of cities, the need to link adaptation and mitigation, disaster risk reduction 
- we need to translate them into acti ons, we need to make them happen. 
Let me conclude by expressing my hope that this conference will foster closer relationships 
and stronger cooperation amongst the govern ment, business, academia and civil society with 
a renewed and strengthened commitment to combat climate change.  
Let me assure you that Georgia will be a reli able partner in jointly addressing the global 
challenges and creating preconditions for clim ate friendly and sustainable development. 
 
Thank you for your kind attention!  