 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MinREP
Honor a
ister of En vPUBLI
S
able Minis t
vironment,
of the 
High
UNFCC
WAR
19th – 2
Page 1 of 1 
 
IC OF 
 
Statement 
 
ter Mr. Tia
 
 Lands an d
 
Republic o
 
 
h Level Se g
C COP 19
 
RSAW, P O
 
1st Novem
 
 
11 KIRI
by 
rite Geor g
d Agricultu
of Kiribati 
gment, 
th Meeting
OLAND 
ber, 2013
BATI 
ge Kwong 
ure Develo ppment Page 2 of 11 
 Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
UNFCCC Executive Secretary 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen  
 
I bring to you all very warm greetings from the people of Kiribati, young and old, 
the Government and my President, His Excellency Anote Tong on whose behalf I 
am privileged to address this august body. In Kiribati we start all addresses by 
conferring blessings of peace and security on all those present so I would like to 
begin by saying to you all: 
 
“KAM NA BANE NI MAURI” 
 
Mr President, 
 
I wish to take this opportunity to express my delegation’s and my own, deep 
appreciation to our gracious hosts, the Government and people of Poland for the warm hospitality we all have been accorded since our arrival in your beautiful 
country and for the meticulous arrangements to ensure the successful conduct of 
our meeting here in Warsaw.  
 
 Page 3 of 11 
 Mr President, 
 
I also wish to echo the sentiments conveyed by previous speakers in 
congratulating you Mr President on assuming the Presidency of this 19th meeting 
of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC. I am confident that under your 
able stewardship, our work towards improving the security and quality of life for 
all members of our global community, in particular those who are the most vulnerable to climate change will move to new levels of international political 
commitment and support in an inclusive and transparent manner. Kiribati fully 
supports you in this important task. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
I also want to commend the untiring commitment and work of our Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr Ban Ki-moon on the issue of climate change and the 
plight of the most vulnerable… those living on the front line of the climate 
challenge which includes my own country. The people of my country and of our 
region reiterate our deep gratitude for the Secretary General’s personal commitment in this regard. Under the UN SG leadership, Kiribati also expects the 
upcoming World Leaders Summit and the Global Conference on SIDS to inform 
the work of the ADP process with a guarantee of a new, ambitious and legally 
binding climate change protocol by 2015 that is centered on saving the most 
vulnerable countries like Kiribati and our global planet. Page 4 of 11 
 Mr President, 
 
The challenges facing us as we gather again for this 19th session of COP here in 
Warsaw are even greater and urgent than when we met a year ago. Security challenges posed by climat e change continue to undermine our efforts, the global 
family of nations to achieve sustainable development…our efforts as a global 
community to work towards peace and security. For some of us, it is a plea for basic survival. As such, I also wished to support and align my statement with 
those made by Fiji on behalf of the G77 and China, Nepal on behalf of Least 
Developed Countries and Nauru on behalf of Alliance of Small Island Developing States. 
 
Mr President, 
 
The tragic event facing the people of the Philippines following super typhoon 
Haiyan… clearly demonstrate the magnitude of the calamity facing us as we 
meet in Warsaw. We join previous speakers in conveying to the people and 
Government of the Philippines, and to those who lost loved ones, that we in Kiribati… join you in prayer during these extremely sad and difficult times. 
 
 
 Page 5 of 11 
 Mr. President, 
 
What is happening in the Philippines is the reality of climate change. This 
reminds us of the important work we ur gently need and must do now. We gather 
here in Warsaw, small island developing states, developing and developed 
states, small, medium sized and big countries… because we have a common 
purpose… and a shared responsibility for our planet… to work together to address and find global concrete solution for the greatest challenge facing us 
with climate change. 
 
Mr President, 
 
Kiribati has and will again highlight that this is a critical issue for the survival of 
our people and indeed for all of humanity. Scient ists tell us that calamity awaits 
and not just for those of us on low-lyi ng islands. What we are experiencing now 
on these low-lying atolls is an early wa rning of what will happen further down the 
line for everyone. No one will be spared. We cannot continue to abuse our planet 
in this way. For the future we want for our children and grandchildren, we need leadership. We need collective action. We need commitment. We need 
Goodwill…NOW at COP19. 
 
 
 Page 6 of 11 
 Mr President, 
 
My delegation was very much touched by the opening session program show- 
casing the situation and the dream of our children living in the other Poland, a village in Kiribati. This means a lot to us, it demonstrates a message of hope that 
under your presidency and chairmanship - the focus of COP 19 is “to have a 
better and safer future for our children that is inclusive and transparent” not only in Kiribati and Poland and around the world.” 
 
Mr President, 
 
While we welcome the progress achieved so far under the UNFCCC process…it 
still is NOT ENOUGH to ensure the surv ival of our people and our planet. The 
recent release of the IPCC 5th Assessment Report (AR5) reaffirms what we 
already know… and what we are already experiencing on the ground. It 
reconfirms the need to ask even harder ques tions for us in Kiribati - what lies 
beyond adaptation? What can be done if we can no longer adapt to climate 
change? How can we continue to adapt, when our survival is at stake?? 
 
Mr President, 
 
Kiribati calls for equal importance to be given to both mitigation and adaptation 
measures through balanced resource allo cation. The delivery of international Page 7 of 11 
 adaptation finance and resources are taking much too long. The Green Climate 
Fund needs to be operationalized and resourced as SOON as possible so it can 
start its operations by the end of 2014. Kiribati calls for improved access in 
particular for SIDS and LDCs, especially through direct access. We also call on our partners from developed countrie s to announce and pledge scaled-up climate 
finance for the years to come as part of the outcomes here in Warsaw, including 
also the need to increase the level of mitigation commitments and ambitions.  
Mr. President, 
 Kiribati is very concerned with the current lack of ambition to reduce greenhouse 
gases. The inadequate support for adaptation for SIDS means increased 
vulnerabilities, high exposure to external shocks and increasing adverse effects 
of climate change. The establishment of an international mechanism on Loss and 
Damage is crucial and must be in place now here in this meeting as we have 
decided in Doha. For countries like Kiribati, loss and damage can no longer be 
avoided through mitigation nor can be avoided through adaptation. In this regard, 
loss and damage must be treated with the urgency it demands. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Time is running out for us. Climate change poses the most urgent security 
challenge for Kiribati… now. We are in the front line of all this. It is already Page 8 of 11 
 causing severe coastal erosions, invol untary displacement of villages, decrease 
in food and water security, and more importantly, has become a survival issue. 
These impacts are putting enormous pressure on domestic institutions, the 
national budget, the families and the sense of well-being of the people. These will continue to be exacerbated in the foreseeable future. 
 
Mr. President, 
We cannot continue to stand on the side-lines and wait for others to deliver. In 
Kiribati, we are taking charge of our situation and moving forward with our mitigation and adaptation strategies. We are now working directly with our 
partners on this like Australia, EU and Taiwan to implement our national 
adaptation priorities. 
 
Mr President, 
 
While we are taking adaptation measures to ensure that Kiribati remains 
habitable for as long as possible, prudence demands that we prepare for a long term future for our people. Kiribati has taken the position that it would be 
irresponsible to acknowledge what we are experiencing on the groundand not do 
anything to prepare our people and communities for eventual migration, in circumstances that permit them to migrate with dignity. We must prepare our Page 9 of 11 
 people for this eventuality. That said relocation will always be viewed as an 
option of last resort. 
 
So what are we doing Mr President? Let me share a few of the things that 
we are doing in Kiribati. 
 
We are buying land offshore to enhance food security for our people. We are 
also working on improving the education and the skills of our people to a level 
where they are able to compete for jobs in the international labour market. We 
have facilitated overseas employment and permanent emigration opportunities for our people. These are in line with Government’s policy on relocation and 
migration with dignity. We want our people to have the option to MIGRATE WITH 
DIGNITY… so they can contribute meaningfully to their new homes rather than 
“climate refugees”.  
 
We are exploring long term survivability and self-reliance options that ensures 
sustainability of culture, heritage and identity of the Kiribati people. We are 
looking at the various options available to a “disappearing” state, the legalities and the precedents. 
 
 
 Page 10 of 11 
 Mr President , 
 
We can only do so much, WE CANNOT DO IT ALONE. Much more needs to be 
done. Because of climate change, our future as a nation and as people is uncertain. Like many others here in this room. We present a whole new security 
challenge. We also bring a whole new meaning to human rights and the right to a 
secure future? Climate change has raised a new dimension of human rights, the right to clean drinking water, the right to education, the right to survival. It has 
also brought a new dimension to the definition of the word “refugee”. 
 Mr President, 
 
As we meet this time in Warsaw for COP 19, we challenge all delegations to 
focus on the urgent need to address the urgent security implications of climate 
change, including violation of territorial integrity, existential threat, more frequent 
and severe climate-related disasters, threats to water and food security, slow 
onset events, increased natural resource scarcity, and forced displacement of 
communities. But above all Mr President, let us focus on the human dimensions of climate change, including, where necessary, initiatives for preparing 
communities and whole peoples for relocation. 
 
 Page 11 of 11 
 Mr President, 
 
We have every confidence that under your able presidency and the Polish 
Government's leadership, you will craft and steer this UNFCCC process to these new innovative levels that can help set a new PEOPLE oriented course for this 
crucial multilateral process. 
 When all of us return to our respective homes from Warsaw, to our respective 
children, and grandchildren we must be able to look them in the eye… and tell 
them with all honesty… that we have done all that is within our collective powers to combat the devastating consequences of climate change. 
 
I would like to conclude by wishing you all the Kiribati traditional blessings of: 
TE MAURI, TE RAOI AO TE TABOMOA – meaning, May Health, Peace and 
Prosperity be with you Mr President as well as on all of us. 
 
I thank you Mr. President. 