 
 
 
 
 
 
UNFCCC COP 19 / CMP 9 
WARSAW 2013 
 
NEW ZEALAND NATIONAL STATEMENT 
 
Hon Tim Groser, Minister for Climate Change Issues 
 
 
Mr President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I would first like to acknowledge the Government and the people of Poland, and thank them for 
generously hosting our discussions over these two weeks. 
 
Amidst all the complexities of the scientific and political debate about the right way to meet the 
challenge from anth ropogenic greenhouse warming, certain rather large realities impose themselves on 
that debate: 
 
 First, the very recent Working Group 1 report on the science, comprising arguably the most 
important component of the IPCC's Fifth Assessment, could not be clea rer: "Warming of the 
climate system is unequivocal....It is extremely likely that human influence has been the 
dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid -20th Century". 
 
 Second, only a global response can deal with this challenge. The first respo nse - the 
commitments of a limited group of countries which ratified the Kyoto Protocol - was just that: a 
first response. With the vast bulk of global emissions - now approaching 90 per cent - taking 
place outside the Kyoto Protocol, far wider participati on in mitigation efforts is essential. 
 
 Third, all countries participating in this complex negotiation have policy objectives other than 
climate change. Developing countries, even those emerging economies that have made huge 
progress in lifting hundreds of millions of people from absolute poverty, need to be sure that the 
commitments they undertake in the post -Kyoto future will not undermine the continued success 
of their development strategies. Equally, there are many developed countries - though my 
countr y is not one of them - that face formidable challenges with double digit unemployment 
and debt to GDP ratios around 100 per cent or greater. Policy prescriptions for climate change 
action that airbrush these realities out of the equation will not take us f orward. 
 
 Fourth, it is entirely legitimate for us to develop proposals across a suite of issues in this 
negotiation particularly with respect to adaptation, but at least in our view, there cannot be a 
serious debate about the pre -eminent importance of mitigation. It is, after all, the central 
objective of the Convention and everything comes back to it. A solid, long term agreement 
consistent with the broad mandate set at Durban for these negotiations will give everyone, no 
matter what their national cir cumstances, the confidence to take actions to meet this long -term 
challenge. 
 
In the meantime, New Zealand is taking action. We are very confident that when the final data is 
available, we will have met our commitment under the Kyoto Protocol for the first Commitment Period 
2008 -12. For the period to 2012 to 2020, we have an unconditional, economy -wide 2020 responsibility 
target of 5 per cent below our 1990 emissions. We have taken this target under the Framework 
Convention, but will apply Kyoto Protocol ru les to ensure our actions are transparent and have integrity. In addition to our unilateral unconditional offer, we are keeping our conditional offer to do more - 
between minus 10 to minus 20 per cent reduction below 1990 emissions - on the table. 
 
Our act ions are not limited just to taking responsibility for our own emissio ns. In 2010, at the FAO Annual 
Ministerial Meeting, we formalised the Global Research Alliance on Agricultural Greenhouse Gases. Its 
objective is to find ways to grow more food for a gro wing world population, without growing greenhouse 
gases which already comprise around 14 per cent of global emissions. The Alliance now has 40 member 
countries from all parts of the world, and is growing. 
 
New Zealand formed the Friends of Fossil Fuel Subs ides Reform to support the G20 intention to phase 
out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. With something in the range of US$400 -$700 billion spent globally 
each year, removing these subsidies could lead to as much as a 13 per cent reduction in global CO2 
emissions – while at the same time delivering social and economic co -benefits. 
 
Our place in the Pacific is important to us. More than half of New Zealand’s $90 million fast -start finance 
was spent in our neighbourhood on resilience -building and renewable e nergy projects. A notable success 
was support for Tokelau to reach over 90 per cent renewable energy. The Pacific Energy Summit we co -
hosted with the European Union this year mobilised more than half a billion dollars for other sustainable 
energy projects in the Pacific. 
 
In the UNFCCC, our eye is now firmly on the prize of the 2015 agreement, the landing zone for which is 
starting to emerge. Mr President, our delegation will work constructively with you and all other 
delegations to ensure that the Warsaw meeting will be a success and an important step towards a 
comprehensive legally binding agreement with participation and commitments commensurate with the 
scale of the problem. 
 
Thank you. 