Mr. President, UNFCCC Executive Secretary, Ministers of Government and Heads of Delegation, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen.
I bring you greetings from my President and the People of the Republic of Sierra Leone.
I am please to congratulate you on your appointment as President of COP19 and CMP9.
On behalf of my humble self and our Government, we extent our profound gratitude to the Government and people of Poland for the warm hospitality accorded us since our arrival. I wish to further say thanks to Countries and Organizations who have made this meeting a success.
Mr. President, I want to strongly reaffirm to this gathering that the President of the Republic of Sierra Leone considers the issue of Climate Change as a priority. In recent years, my President has retained the Environment Protection Agency under his Office in addition to the UNFCCC focal person at the Metrological Department under the Ministry of Transport and Aviation.
Our Government has also established the Climate Change Secretariat within the Environment Protection Agency.

Our President has ensured that we submitted our first and second National Communication and National Adaptation Program for action. The preparation of our third National Communication with support from UNEP will soon commence.
Mr. President, to show the commitment of Sierra Leone with regards Climate Change, our President Dr. Ernest Bai Koroma on the 12 of August this year, launched the inclusive green growth in the Government next five years development plan “THE AGENDA FOR PROSPERITY".
This green growth Agenda is in line with low emission and climate resilient development pathways.
In light of the above, I want to inform this gathering that the shift to renewable energy is seriously gaining prominence in Sierra Leone with the installation of over 12'000 solar street lights, the commencement of the second face of the Bumbuna Hydro Project, the implementation of the ADAX Bio-energy CDM Project which again will go a long way in reducing Sierra Leone's overall emissions.
Mr. President, the results of the IPCC’s report is clear, therefore, Sierra Leone has held the same political position
in favour of an ambitious climate agreement in line with the recommendations of the fourth report of the IPCC.
Mr. President, Sierra Leone submits that adaptation must assume a prominent place on the climate agenda with a balance view to necessary mitigation actions, if we are to overcome poverty and achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
To this end, Sierra Leone joins the LDCs and African Groups to call for concrete commitments in Warsaw towards fulfilling the promised of one hundred billion united states dollars per year by 2020 as committed by developed country Parties and underscore the need for a clear climate finance roadmap to scale up financial resources in order to avoid the funding gap from 2013 to 2015.
In view of the above, my delegation joins the LDCs to ask for clarity in terms of financial sources and pledges to the Green Climate Fund.
Mr. President, my delegation welcomes the further efforts of COP to ensure that parties mainstream gender-related consideration into National policies and programs, provide capacity building and greater participation of women in all climate change issues especially women in developing countries.

In advancing women's roll in climate mitigation, the government of Sierra Leone has established the "bare foot" College in which women are predominantly trained to assemble and install solar panels lights for rural villages and towns across the country.
This is part of Government's strategy to increase access to electricity for its citizens with less CO2 emission.
Mr. President, we are committed to the successful outcome of the Climate Change talks in Warsaw. We hereby reaffirm our association with the Least Developed Countries, the Africa Group, G77 and China, and the Coalition of Rain Forest Nations by supporting their respective positions.
Mr. President, let me end my statement by joining the whole world in expressing our profound condolences to the Government and the People of Philippines for their irreparable loss. Typhoon Haiyan has once again gravely reminded us of the looming disaster and the urgent imperative to put aside the endless rhetoric and act NOW.
I thank you Mr. President and all delegates for your kind attention.