Mr. President. 
Your Excellency Minister Marcin Korolec . 
Allow me to convey greetings on behalf of the Government and People of Belize. 
I also extend my delegation ’s appreciation to the Government and People of Poland and 
the City of Warsaw for being gracious hosts,  
Belize also joins other nations in expressing its profound symp athies to the 
people of the Philipines who have been affected by the Typhoon Haiyan and the people 
of Somalia who were recently ravaged by Tropical Cyclone 3A. 
Mr. President, we see this COP as a vital step on the road to success to a global 
climate regime in 2015.  
The slogan “I care” , a slogan that is most appropriate for this occasion could 
easily be “We care” . Nothing exemplifies this fact more than the commitment we as 
Governments made to address the issue of climate change when we ratified the 
Convention in 1994 . In 2009, in Copenhagen, we agreed to limit warming to below 2 
degrees Celsius and to scale up finance . In Durban , we agreed to conclude a universal 
global climate treaty by 2015.  
Mr President, these are international, binding legal obligations. As we convene in 
Warsaw we must make significant progress on a number of critical and salient issues. 
 
Science is important to our work. To the extent that science continues to improve 
and to sharpen our understanding of what we have done to our climate system, it must 
also be a part of our solution. The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
Working Group One findings have reinforced the urgency of our work here in Warsaw.  
On finance, Governments need to provide clarity on scaling up the mobilisation of 
100 billion USD per year by 2020 to assist developing countries in both adaptation and 
mitigation.  Since 2012, we have had no assurance that the much touted Copenhagen 
100bn commitment will be fulfilled. We have instead heard excuses of why it cannot be 
reached. Shockingly , that Copenhagen commitment was not imposed upon any country ! 
It was undertaken as a sovereign decision of those who subscribe to Copenhagen. 
Mr. President, governments must also take steps to address loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change from extreme and slow-onset 
events. This is extremely important for our region, as climate change inflicts loss and 
damage on our economies, livelihoods, coastal infrastructure, ecosystems , food and 
water supplies.  
It is also critical that Governments continue to advance the work under the 
Durban Platform. The details of the new global agreement under the Durban Platform 
need to be worked out in Warsaw .  
We join with AOSIS and urge all countries to raise ambition of targets and 
actions in 2014, including new pledges from Governments who have not done so. We 
all need to close the ambition gap if we want to avoid the highest cost of adaptation.  
 Mr. President, ninety -five percent of Belize’s emission s are from the land use and 
forestry sectors. REDD+ must be a part of any workable climate change solution. We 
need to consider all options to limit warming to well below 2 or 1.5 degree Celsius.  A 
mechanism for the full implementation of REDD+ activities as identified in paragraph 70 
of decision 1/CP.16  of the Cancun Agreements should be fully included in the new 
agreement and be supported with adequate, additional and predictable finance coming 
from a wide variety of sources.  
Mr. President, Belize’s Horizon 2030 Plan has set the framework for future 
development and envisions a modern, green and sustainable economy. Although Belize 
is amongst the lowest emitters of greenhouse gases , we have acted domestically and 
are at the forefront of confronting climate change. We were never one to make 
excuses.  
Mr. President, Belize is one of the leaders in the region in having a 63% 
renewable energy mix with 96% of our domestic energy production coming from 
renewable energy sources . Recently, the Government of Belize has approved a 
National Energy Policy Framework which outlines Belize’s path to greater energy 
efficiency, sustainability and resilience over the next 30 years.  
 
 Mr. President,  
Adaptation is now an imperative for our sustainability. Belize is a low lying coastal state 
with a fringe of islands and cays extremely vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate 
change and climate variability. The livelihoods of our people are persisten tly threatened 
by floods that destroy homes, roads and bridges while leaving communities isolated. 
Recurrent droughts have affect ed agriculture and our electricity sectors. During the past 
decade, Belize has been severely affected by six major hurricanes leaving many 
homeless in already impoverished areas, and destroy ing critical transport and energy 
infrastructure.  These storms wreaked havoc in our agriculture and forest sectors 
resulting in millions of dollars in loss and damage.  
 
Mr. President, Belize is entrusted with the largest Barrier Reef System in the Northern 
Hemisphere, a system that includes three of the four atolls in the Caribbean and over a 
thousand cays. It is estimated that the reef systems provide $395 - $559 million US 
dollars in goods and services. However, this World Heritage site is being threatened by 
higher sea temperatures and ocean acidification caused by increasing levels of carbon 
dioxide in the ocean.  
 
Adaptation is costly for my country. Critical climate change financing is needed to move 
Belize towards a climate resilient and low carbon future of sustainable development . 

 The time for action is now! We must all do our part! However, we cannot do it alone and 
we cannot do it without significant financing, participation and cooperation from all 
stakeholders. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Let me take this opportunity to thank the Governments of Japan , Australia and the 
European Union for their assist ance in our Mitigation and Adaptation efforts.   
 
We have also received assistance in various forms from the Republic of China on 
Taiwan and urge that it is time for Taiwan to be permitted to meaningfully participate in 
the Convention . No country should be excluded from offering a solution to climate 
change.  
 
Finally, Mr. President, I want to give you my highest assurances that both the 
Government and people of Belize are committed to the principles of the Convention. We 
have been doing our part and pledge to continue our efforts. It is only through our 
collective efforts we can be assure d of a habitable planet for ours and future 
generations.  
 
Thank you, 