 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT BY HONORABLE AMB. STANISLAS KAMANZI 
MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
COP19/CMP 9 
 
WARSAW /POLAND, 20 November 2013 
 
Excellency, the President of COP19/CMP 9 , 
Honorable Ministers and Heads of Delegations, 
Excellencies, 
Secretary General of UN 
Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
I am immensely honoured to address th is gathering on beh alf of Rwanda. 
 
It is my pleasure to add my voice to those of who have spoken before me to 
congra tulate you , Mr President , for the excellent facilitation of this 
confere nce. 
 
Allow me also to express my sencere appreciation to the pe ople and the 
Government of Poland for the warm hospitality accorded to my delegation 
since our arrival in this beautiful  City of Warsaw . 
 
Rwanda extends her support and confidence in you Mr President and in 
Madam Christiana Figueres, The Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC in 
leadfing this Confererence of Parties to successful conclusions in the lead -
up to agreeing on a com prehensive climate regime in the next two years. 
 
Let me also take this opportunity to express our solidarity to the 
Govenrment and the people of Philip pines for t he trying moments they have 
going through due to the deadly and destructive typhoon. 
 2 Mr Pr esident , 
 
We are all gathered here to follow the progress of the implementation of 
Doha Gateway which was achieved in C OP18. Furthermore , we recognize 
that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time . It 
represents a daunting and irreversi ble threat to our planet and to human 
societies and their natural environment . 
 
We note with concern the report of Working Group I of IPCC entitled 
“Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis” . It has reminded us that 
the climate system s, including t he atmosphere and ocean have warmed and 
sea level has risen with negative implications and projections for the whole 
planet. 
 
Mr President , 
As our countries will ineluctably  continue to experience extreme climate 
change impacts, we reiterate that all pa rties should join and ratify the Doha 
amendment s to the Kyoto Protocol . This requires us to address all 
outstanding issues . These include the increment of the level of ambition, 
carry -over of Assigned Amount of units as well as submission of 
commitment on QELROs . This will not only help to stabilize global average 
temperature below 2 °C above pre - industrial level but also save the 
vulnerable countries like ours. The process is starting very imminently, as 
far as Rwanda is concerned.  
Mr P resident , 
Rwanda has taken a pro active approach in mainstream ing the E nvironment 
and Climate Change in our long term national development blue print , 
Vision 2020 , which also provides for short and medium term strategies and 
specific actions towards achieving sustainable ec onomic development. Our 
most recent move in this connection is the operationalization of the Fund 
for the E nvironment and Climate Change (FONERWA) to facilitate the 
implementation of the national cross - sectoral green growth and climate 
resilience strategy . 
Let me use this opportunity to express our deepest gratitude to our 
development partners, notably DFID, that have provided substantial 
support for its establishment . In this regard, we strongly request that the 3 agreed upon climate finance mechanisms b e given the necessary capacity 
to support national initiatives aimed at building systemic climate resilience 
and sustainable development, keeping in mind the post 2015 global 
perspectives 
Mr President,  
Rwanda wholeheartedly supports the very strategic pr oposal from His 
Excellency Ban Ki Moon, the UN Secretary General to convene a Summit 
meeting in September 2014, to take stock of the progress made in laying a 
foundation for a comprehensive and legally binding Climate Agreement in 
2015, and to identify the most appropriate channels to succeed in that 
regard. From Warsaw, we are compelled to work tirelessly to ensure that 
most of the substantive matters requiring our synergies are properly 
addressed, so that the Summit in New York has strong grounds to outli ne 
the necessary political guidance for that Agreement to be agreeable to all 
our Nations, with no exception at COP 21. 
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen , 
Allow me to conclude my remarks by reiterating Rwanda’ s firm 
commitment to being part of the global fight to tackle the climate change 
challenges to global socio - economic development . We impress upon all 
parties here present to resolutely embark on the next critical step to deliver 
on the needed clarity and selflessness to be able to agree on a benefic ial  
climate compatible developmen t framework. 
 
 
Thank you / Dziękuję 