 
Tuvalu Statement   
Delivered  by the Hon Enele S Sopoaga,  Prime Minister,  
at the High Level Segment of COP19, 
Thursday  21, Warsaw, Poland. 
CHECK AGAINST DELIVERY  
Mr President, 
Distinguished Heads of State and Ministers, 
Madame Executive Secretary, 
Colleagues, 
 
I first wish to express my gratitude to the Go vernment and people of Poland for the warm 
hospitality they have shown the Tuvalu Delegation and me since our arrival. 
I also wish to associate m yself with the speech made by my close neighbour, His 
Excellency Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of Nauru, speakin g on behalf of the Alliance 
of Small Island States. 
I led the Tuvalu delegation at the climate change COP in Cancun thr ee years ago. Now, 
I have come to Warsaw, as I did in Posnan fo r COP14, with high expectations for more 
clarity and commitment on real ac tions by humanity to save my people in Tuvalu, to save 
the people of the world against climate change. I am deeply saddened by what I hear, of 
the slow and backtracking progress in the climate change negotiations. 
It’s a sad fact that this year represent s the year when human ity produced the most 
amount of carbon diox ide from burning fossil fuels th an any year in human history. 
Instead of saving our surviv al on planet earth, humanity is actually and shamelessly 
destroying our very existence. This is an absolute tragedy. We cannot continue to steal 
the future from our children and our children’s children. We cannot continue to burn up 
the Earth with little regard for the consequen ces. We need a revolution in our thinking, 
otherwise climate change will destroy us all. 
Mr President 
The devastating typhoon in the Philippines should have been a wake-up call to all of us. 
But I am told by my delegat ion that this stark reminder of humanity’s impact on the 
climate has had little effect on the negoti ation process. Progress is slow. The first 
chapter of the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report is a clear reminder that we have little time 
left to take decisive action to reverse our use of fossil fuels. 
Which strongly suggests that unless negotia tions to advance for a legally binding 
agreement GHG reduction an d adaptation actions agains t climate change are done 
urgently, the children of Tuva lu and the children of the world will have no future. We 
must save Tuvalu and SIDS like it in order to save the world. 
The UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon’s s peech at the opening of this high level 
segment was a stark reminder that we have a lot to do and there certainly is a steep 
road ahead. It is a road that we all must travel. We all must make an effort to reduce our 
emissions and create a renewabl e energy and energy efficient future for all citizens of 
this Earth. We cannot afford to let some stand by the roads ide and let others do all the 
work. Everyone must take action. I look fo rward to the Secretar y-General’s Climate 
Summit next year, but we mu st learn from the Summit t hat preceded Co penhagen. We 
cannot afford shallow or false promises. We cannot afford rhetoric. We cannot afford 
blindness to our future. We all must set asid e our narrow self-interests and work towards 
future for all. We must build a collective plan that ensures th at countries like Tuvalu have 
a future. 
Importantly, as we have heard in the last few days, we must clearly listen to the youth 
and women of this world. We must seek thei r guidance on how to mould their future. We 
all must listen. 
Mr President, at this meeting we have seen some progress in putting forward a 
framework for a new agreement in 2015. Sa dly, much of what is being proposed now 
was already proposed by Tuvalu back in 2009 with our draft Protocol on climate change. 
I urge everyone here to look at our 2009 proposal and see if this can direct us towards a 
strong outcome in 2015. We cannot afford to keep ignoring the efforts that we made in 
the past. 
Mr President, I am saddened by the poor progress on the issue of a Loss and Damage 
Mechanism. For low income, highly vulnerable countries, like Tuvalu, a Loss and 
Damage Mechanism is critical. The costs of t he impacts of climate c hange are starting to 
build up. We need insurance mechanisms fun ded by the international community to help 
us rebuild from the impacts of climate ch ange. Within this Loss and Damage Mechanism 
we need a clear approach to compensation. It deep ly saddens me that some of our close 
Pacific neighbours have been so unhelpful in this discussion. We seem to be witnessing 
a turn back in time to the da ys of climate change denial. We must establish a rational approach to Loss and Damage and be bound by the 
polluter pays principle. We need to ensure that we are properly compensated for the 
damage caused by the polluters. If we can not agree on a rational system within the 
UNFCCC where costs for compensation can be fairly distributed, we wi ll be forced to go 
to the courts. We will seek damages and we will seek full repar ations. So we have a 
choice, agree on a rational system under th e UNFCCC, or seek compensation through 
the courts. 
Mr President, some have sugg ested that the people of Tuvalu can move elsewhere. Let 
me say in direct terms. We do not want to move. Such suggestions are offensive to the 
people of Tuvalu. Our lives and culture are based on our continued existence on the 
islands of Tuvalu. We will survive. 
But humanity, the polluters, must save Tuvalu in or der to save the world. 
 
I thank you. 