On behalf of the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, I would like to
extend my gratitude to the Government of Poland, the Polish people and the City of
Warsaw for the warm hospitality and excellent organisation of this important event.

Mr. President,

Climate change affects us all.

Our science has proved it.

The fact is upon us. Extreme events are getting more intense. We all have witnessed and
struggled with such inconceivable losses and damage as those of Typhoon Haiyan, one
of the most powerful in history.

As of now, we have not done enough to adapt.

We know! Now! Weare responsible.

Mr. President,

Our efforts, to this date, cannot assure the below-2-degree goal. A 4-degree increase
with highly dangerous catastrophe can be real.

Smart actions must be taken. Revolution in perception, policy development and
institutional arrangement must be done. We know enhanced adaptive capacity, climate
resilience, low carbon and green growth are the way forward. 

A new global legal agreement has been well concieved. Let us not loose the momentum
and realise it. To grain a significant outcome in Paris, a more focused programme 
of work needs to be in place. Developed countries must increase commitment on emission
cut by June 2014 at the latest.

Our efforts at global scale cannot be realised without scaling up climate finance. A
roadmap with agreed milestones before 2020 must be put in place.

Without doubt, our current efforts cannot meet the need for adaptation. Loss and damage
should have well-established institutional arrangement with supports of finance,
technology transfer and capacity building for countries to respond to natural catastrophe.

Second commitment of the Kyoto Protocol needs to be taken more seriously. The higher
ambition on emission cut, the less damage we, and our children, will suffer.

Mr. President,

As one of the most vulnerable countries, Viet Nam commits to contribute to global
efforts. We fully support the process of constructing the new 2015 Agreement.

At home, Climate Change and Green Growth Strategies, with focus on adaptation at the
current time, respect the principles of the Convention to reduce GHG emission. With
international support, Viet Nam aims to reduce GHG emission intensity by 8 to 10%
compared to 2010; energy consumption per GDP by 1 to 1.5% per year; GHG emission
from energy by 10% to 20% compared to BAU.

Viet Nam is realising the targets with CDM, REDD+, NAMA, Joint Creditting
Mechanism and other domestic efforts.

Mr President!
On this occasion, I would like to thank international organisations and countries for
valuable supports. Viet Nam welcomes further engagement and assistance, in any form,

to help Viet Nam, to help us all.

I believe with cooperation and solidarity, we can achieve our common goals in
combating climate change.

I thank you very much./.

