Nineteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP 19)

National statement of Romania

delivered by Mrs. Rovana PLUMB, Minister of Environment and Climate
Change

Warsaw, 21" of November 2013

Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,

Allow me to start by expressing my congratulations to you, Mr.
President, for your election as the President of COP 19. I would like to
use this opportunity to extend my appreciation to the Government and
people of Poland for hosting this Conference, as well as for the
excellent organization.

The world is rapidly changing and the consequences of this change will
be our legacy to the future generations.

We came here to reconfirm that Doha was just the beginning of our
renewed efforts to address climate change and to make progress in our
work under the Durban Platform.

We must not leave Warsaw without a clear work plan with concrete
actions that will set out the key milestones until 2015.

in addressing climate Change Challenges, the giobal approach Is very
important. In our view, in order to achieve the 2 degrees goal, we need
a framework that joins the efforts of all countries. To see if we are on
track, we believe an assessment process is also needed.

In Doha, Romania, together with all the other EU Member States,
committed to a second period under the Kyoto Protocol. This will
entail significant efforts and costs for our citizens, but nevertheless, we
are determined to meet our promise.

Last, but not least, enhancing implementation is essential. We all
need to work in this direction.

We are mindful that beyond the doors of our negotiating rooms our
citizens are watching us closely. In our effort, we see the NGOs, the
civil society and the academia as key partners that are essential to our
success. Furthermore, the direct involvement and participation of the
private sector is crucial.

Romania aligns itself with the statement by EU and would like to
underline that the new 2015 agreement requires also renewed
political support. From this perspective, the 2014 World Summit on
Climate proposed by the UN Secretary General will offer an excellent
opportunity in this respect.

We have to act now. We are running out of time. And I am not saying
that because of deadlines we set for ourselves. It’s because of extreme
weather events and widespread devastation we are facing lately or have
witnessed in different parts of the world.

Please allow me to conclude by saying that the key to success on
climate action is to move forward together. In that respect, all
nations need to commit and contribute.

