
On behalf of the Government and people of Malawi, I wish to 
congratulate you on your election as President of this conference.  
 
Mr.  President, I would like to concur with  the statements made by the 
Chairs of the Group of 77 and China, Least Developed Countries as well 
as the African Group. The  delegations  have  outlined  with  clarity,  the 
perils of postponing action on the key climate change issues that confront 
us here in Warsaw. They have, sincerely  made it clear that the world is 
impatiently waiting for our decisions, in particular on the issues 
surrounding adaptation, mitigation,  capacity building,  technology 
transfer,  use  of  market  mechanisms; agriculture, loss  and damage and 
climate finances including the Green Climate Fund,   
 
Mr. President, the adoption of a second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol in Doha last year was an  essential step forward. As such, we 
encourage all developed countries to join and adopt ambitious targets in 
emission reductions as well as pledged amounts in new and additional 
climate change finances. Developed  country Parties that are still not 

 
willing  to  join  the  second  commitment  period  must  equally  take 
comparative emission cuts under the Convention.  
 
Mr. President,  in  Malawi,  intensive  rain  and  flooding  have  challenged 
communities, damaged infrastructure  and continue to threaten many 
livelihoods and loss of  life. Furthermore, climate change has routinely 
subjected  the  14  million  Malawians  to  other  impacts  that  negatively 
affect agriculture, human and animal  health, fisheries, forestry, water, 
and wildlife resources.  
 
In addition to extreme rain and floods, the country also experiences 
severe droughts that continue to threaten food security and availability 
and access to water resources. As I speak to you right now, many 
vulnerable Malawians are struggling due to negative impacts of climate 
change. For them  life is a continuous struggle full of hopelessness. 
However, the COP-19 here in Warsaw provides us an opportunity to 
enable many people like the ones I have cited   to adapt adequately to 
the adverse impacts of climate change.  We  therefore  need  to  make 
concrete decisions that will help such people to meet their livelihoods now 
and in future.  
 
Mr.  President, we see a great and increasing need for political and 
moral leadership and action in the face of these  escalating threats of 
climate change. The levels of ambitions for both emission reductions and 
pledges for climate change finances  are  too  low  to  meet the desired 

 
goal  of  the  Convention.  All  the  vulnerable  people need an immediate 
assistance through effective adaptation and other related efforts. The 
current funding situation is, however, inadequate.  
 
Mr. President, we need to fully operationalize the Green Climate Fund; 
agree on decisions that will properly balance funding for adaptation, 
mitigation, technology transfer and  capacity building. Here in Warsaw, 
we must strengthen REDD plus and  set up an effective monitoring, 
reporting  and  verification  [MRV]  system  based  on  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.  
 
In Cancun we adopted the Cancun Adaptation Framework, with its 
institutions, which  was a stepping stone in addressing adaptation in 
developing countries including Malawi. Now is the time  we start 
implementing what we have already agreed and operationize it. I call 
upon the developed countries to provide additional financing and 
technology so that we can implement adaption actions in our Countries. 
Malawi has now started embarking  on  a  journey  to  identify  and 
implement medium and long term  adaptation needs for our National 
adaptation Plan process and this will need concerted  efforts from 
development partners to enable us  address the challenges of climate 
change for our communities. 
 
Having elevated climate change to  high priority status our National 
Development and Growth  Strategy, and creation of a dedicated 

 
ministry on climate change, Malawi needs global partnerships to scale up 
its national mitigation and adaptation measures as currently outlined in 
the National Climate Change Policy, the National Climate Change 
Programme as well as the  newly developed National Climate Change 
Investment Plan which we are going  to showcase on Friday at a side 
event,  and  you  are  all  invited.  These  initiatives  require  technical  and 
financial support for the actions to be realized to the benefit of all the 
vulnerable communities.  
 
Mr. President,  we  have  a  window  of  opportunity  here  in  Warsaw  to 
achieve a better outcome for our people. My delegation is confident that 
under your able leadership, Warsaw  will deliver a set of positive 
decisions that will anchor a balanced and comprehensive roadmap to 
take us to the year 2015 in Paris when we shall adopt a 'truly' legally-
binding outcome for all of us, taking into account the principles of equity   
and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective 
capabilities.  
 
Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you 
for your attention. 
 
  