The Federation of St. Kitts and Nevis 
Statement at the 
High Level Segment of the 
United Nations Climate Change Conference, 
COP 19 and CMP 9, Warsaw, Poland 
21st November, 2013 
Delivered by: 
H.E. Delano Bart, Q.C. 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary 
Permanent Representative to the United Nations 
 
 
Mr. President, Excellenc ies, Distinguished La dies and Gentlemen. 
 
I bring very warm greetings from the Governme nt and People of the Federation of St. Kitts 
and Nevis.  
Let me take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to the Government and people of 
Poland for the excellen t arrangements and their kind hospita lity as they host us during this 
COP19. 
St. Kitts and Nevis associates its elf with the statements made by Fiji on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China, and the Republic of Nauru, on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States. 
 
Mr. President, another COP ha s been marked with the trag edy of natural disaster. The 
Federation extends sincere sympat hy to the people of the Phili ppines, Palau, Micronesia and 
other countries that have been affected by the extreme impa cts of Typhoon Haiyan. This 
event has helped to put into context the importance of the ta sk at hand he re in Warsaw. 
 
St. Kitts and Nevis numbers among those most vu lnerable to the adverse effects of climate 
change. We have a population of fewer than 50,000 people and a landmass of 105 square 
miles, with the majority of se ttlements based on the coasts. We are particularly concerned 
about the present and future im plications for health, infrastructure, water security, and food 
and nutrition security. 
Mr. President, climate change is the greatest global chal lenge of our time. It is of significant 
concern to us that while we c ontinue to negotiate a global agreement, em issions continue to 
rise to record levels. St. Kitt s and Nevis joins other small isla nd developing st ates, in calling 
for urgent and ambitious action.  This year we received yet a nother important repor t from the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC). “The P hysical Science Basis Report” underscores the gravity of the 
challenges we face. It declares: 
“Continued emissions of greenhouse gases will cause further warmi ng and changes in all 
components of the climate syst em. Limiting climate change will require substantial and 
sustained reductions of gr eenhouse gas emissions.” 
Let us be guided by the science. 
Mr. President, there is a clear understanding that th e stakes have risen and that the global 
community needs to pool its collective will to galvanize the necessary action to address this 
challenge. It is also clear to us that the so lution rests in multilate ralism. Our effectiveness 
here in the UNFCCC process is a tr ue test of its continued validit y. I say to you, as states, we 
all have a role to play. Mr. President, it is in keeping with this view that the Federati on calls for the inclusion of the 
Republic of China (Taiwan) in th e UNFCCC process as an observer. 
 Taiwan has shown its commitment to contributi ng to the fight against climate change through 
its national actions as well as through initiatives to assist parties in reducing emissions, for 
example, through clean energy projects. Taiwan is also one of the fe w countries to have 
voluntarily announced re duction targets for carbon dioxide emissions. 
 
Mr. President, we are at a critic al point in these negotiations. It is evident that the will of a 
number of parties is diminishing. I can confidently declare that this is not the case for St. 
Kitts and Nevis, and other forward looking parties. 
 Extensive work remains to be done in crea ting a clear, balanced and feasible path to 
achieving a legally binding agre ement in 2015. We need to in crease ambition and scale up 
financing.  
We appeal for the urgent opera tionalization and capita lisation of the Green Climate Fund. 
Financing for the Adapta tion Fund must also be addressed. Progress in these areas, will 
greatly contribute toward s important support for adaptation and mitigation actions into the 
future. 
We call for support of the AOSIS proposal under ADP Workst ream 2, as it represents an 
important tool in urgently addressing the pre- 2020 mitigation ambiti ons gap, with initial 
focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
 Parties should rise to the occas ion to advance the issue of Loss and Damage. This relates to 
the effects of climate change that cannot be addressed throu gh adaptation or mitigation. The 
mandate we received in Doha must not be ignored. Let us move forward in addressing the 
institutional arrangements and financial support. 
 Mr. President, we call for succes sful outcomes on these issues here in Warsaw. We have too 
much at stake. The survival of the way of life, livelihoods, prospects and progress of our 
peoples, and future generations de pend on us. Let us not fail wher e it is essential for us to 
succeed. 
Thank your Mr . President. 