 
 Federal Department of the Environment, 
Transport, Energy and Communications DETEC 
Federal Office for the Environment FOEN 
International Affairs Division 
 
1/4 
6.21/2004 -00010/01/04/23/01/01/01/02/03/M447 -0124 
 
 COP 19 UNFCCC , Warsaw 
Statement by Federal Councillor Doris Leuthard 
 
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends , 
Once again, we are coming together to search for solution s to 
address the challenge of climate change. Once again, the world is 
watching us. And once again, the public perception risks be ing that 
we me et, but don’t act ; that we talk, but don’t “walk”. 
Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, this must not be! We can and 
have to make sure that the climate negotiations make a difference - 
in the real world. Our work must therefore lead: 
- to substantial emission s reductions by all main emitters , 
- to concrete measures that help each of us to adapt , and 
- to effective support for those who need it. 
 
The facts are clear 
You all know the facts: The most recent dramatic example of the 
changes in the climate system can be seen in the Philippines and the 
devastation left by typhoon Haiyan. Moreover, t he human influence 
on these changes in the climate system is clear and proven by the 
IPCC Report . 
 
The imp acts are significant 
Switzerland, situated in the Alpine system, has already experienced 
warming above the global average. As things stand , the i mpact of 
warming in my country is expected to become more severe in the 
Reference : M447 -0124 
 
2/4 
6.21/2004 -00010/01/04/23/01/01/01/02/03/M447 -0124 
 
 coming years . The stability of the moun tains will diminish due to 
higher temperature s and heavier and more concentrated rainfalls. 
The Alpine glaciers are now melting at a faster rate than they were a 
few decades ago . 
 
The solutions are known 
Limiting warming to less than 2 degrees will requir e substantial and 
sustained global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions . And this 
reduction in emissions can only be achieved if all countries , namely 
all main emitters, act. Climate change does not stop at national 
borders . Cross -border problems therefo re require global solutions . 
National efforts are good, but international ly coordinated and binding 
measures are better . 
Not only is it technically and economically feasible to reduce 
emissions , we also all know that the costs of inaction far exceed the 
benefits of a green economy based on lower emissions . 
We have to make sure that financing – both public and private – 
heads in the right direction : 
 we have to invest in green technology, renewable energy and 
energy efficiency, and not in carbon! Today, 17% o f CO2 
emissions are caused by forest fires . This is an area in which 
we can achieve quick results . That is also the case in terms of 
transport . 
- In the past, we industrialised countries have cut down forests , 
over fertilised our lakes and waterways , pollute d the air – all 
with dramatic consequences . We have learnt from that . That is 
why I say to developing and threshold countries, I understand 
your efforts to achieve progress and prosperity . But this 
growth needs to have a solid foundation and must not be at 
the detriment of the environment and human health . 
- We industrialised countries therefore have a duty to help other 
countries to develop in the shape of t ransfer ring know -how 
Reference : M447 -0124 
 
3/4 
6.21/2004 -00010/01/04/23/01/01/01/02/03/M447 -0124 
 
 and technology . It is not about industrialised countries selling 
this technology as a new form of business . It is simply the 
case that this know -how a nd technology achieve good results 
and serve our goal of establishing a low carbon society. That’s 
something that is in all our interests . Ultimately the whole 
world benefits from the sol idarity between industrialised and 
developing countries . 
 
The framework needed for these solutions 
Two years ago in Durban we agreed to develop by 2015 a legally -
binding agreement /treaty applicable to all countries . In order to be 
effective, such an agreem ent will have to ensure ambitious, 
unconditional, quantifiabl e and comparable action by all countries . It 
would have to be based on common rules and be supported by a 
common measuring, reporting , verification and compliance 
mechanism. Th is meeting here in Warsaw must be an important step 
in that direction. Therefore, here at COP 1 9, we have to: 
- determine core modalities of the post -2020 commitments such as 
the length of the commitment period, agree that all commitments 
will be unconditional, and that all co mmitments must be clear, 
quantifiable in tonnes of CO2 equivalent and comparable 
- agree on the areas where common rules for national 
commitments are needed and on the process of how these 
commitment s will be formali sed; 
- and begin work on scaling up the amou nt and effectiveness of 
climate finance , and on support and guidance for adaptation. 
 
Switzerland is ready to do its part: 
Finally, let me reassure you that Switzerland is ready to do its fair 
share : 
Reference : M447 -0124 
 
4/4 
6.21/2004 -00010/01/04/23/01/01/01/02/03/M447 -0124 
 
 - Switzerland has agreed to a second commitment period un der 
the Kyoto Protocol, and my government will submit the 
respective amendments to parliament in January 2014.  
- Switzerland has put in place new CO2 legislation to reduce 
domestic CO2 emissions . 
- Switzerland is also ready to engage in emission reduction 
measures additional to its 2020 target under the Kyoto Protocol, 
namely within the Climate and Clean Air Coalition, the Friends of 
Fossil Fuel Subsidy Reform, or by including civil aviation in the 
emission trading scheme. 
- And, Switzerland will continue to wo rk with and support 
developing parties in mitigating the effects of and adapting to 
climate change. To underline our strong commitment, 
Switzerland will contribute 10 million dollars this year to the 
Adaptation Fund. 
 
=> add ev. para on behalf of EIG, wou ld be done in Warsaw 
 
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends: For many 
companies low cost fossil energy is important. But the price will rise, 
if we think only in terms of short term and economic criteria. Here in 
Warsaw we can make a difference to ensure that negotiations of the 
future climate regime will be successful . 
Thank you ! 