1 
 Statement by H.E. Ambassador Azmi Aldaqqa, Ambassador of 
the State of Palestine to Poland, before the High Level Segment 
of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, Warsaw, 
Poland, November 21st 2013; 
 
 
Mr. President 
 At the outset, I wish to extend to the Government and people of 
Poland our appreciation for your hospitality and for hosting this 
important event, which addresses an issue of central importance, 
indeed of survival, to all of us . Our admiration also goes to, 
President of the conference and UNFCCC Executive Secretary 
Christiana Figueres, for the manner in which they ran the work of 
our conference. 
 Allow me to begin by affirmin g that the State of Palestine 
associates itself with the statement made by Fiji on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China.  
We also wish to express our de epest and heartfelt condolences 
to and solidarity with the people and government of 
the Philippines as they continue to exert such extraordinary effort 
to overcome the devastation and loss of life that accompanied 2 
 Super Typhoon Haiyan. We wish 
the Philippine people early succe ss in overcoming this disaster. 
 Mr. President 
 
These disasters prove on ce again that collective action is key to our 
success, as without it, we simply ca nnot confront the scientifically 
proven threat to our very existence. It is also indisputable that 
developing countries ar e the most affected by the dangerous effects 
of climate change since they are th e least able to deal with them. 
Evasion of responsibility is simply not an op tion since we all face 
the negative impacts of climate change. That is why a spirit that reinforces global partnership and ensures results through actions must guide us through this conference and beyond. 
 Urgent action is our only way to mitigate the damage that has 
already been done to our environm ent. This action must guarantee 
that developing countries are not denied their right to sustainable 
development through economic, social development and 
environmental protection. It must also take into consideration historical responsibility, and adhere to the principles of equity, 
common but differentiated re sponsibilities, and respective 
capabilities. Our actions should also take in to consideration the 3 
 compelling findings of the Fifth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 
 Pending the development of anot her legally binding instrument 
under the Convention, we believe that our efforts to face the global 
challenge of climate change sh ould depend on implementing 
obligations in already existing in struments. Chiefly, the UNFCCC 
and the Kyoto Protocol, being the only legally binding instrument, 
as well as the Rio principles on environment and development, are essential pillars that can guide our current and future efforts. 
Furthermore, key outcomes of UN Climate Change Conferences in 
Copenhagen, Cancun, Durban and Do ha must be upheld and built 
upon.   Mr. President,  
Palestine has taken major steps to combat climate change. The 
protection of the environment in the State of Palestine holds an 
important place in the national polic y agenda, which is focused on 
the need to exert efforts to prot ect the environment and ensure its 
sustainability for future generati ons. We work hard to uphold our 
share of the collective responsibil ity to combat climate change 4 
 despite our situation as a people still shackled by foreign military 
occupation. 
 Despite the difficulties posed by o ccupation, the State of Palestine 
has incorporated Environmental considerations into its state-
Building efforts. The Pales tinian Environmental Quality 
Authority monitors and coordina tes national efforts to combat 
climate change and to protect the environment. Palestine has also 
achieved substantial progress on the legal front pertaining to the 
protection of the environment. The Palestinian Environmental 
Law, approved in 1999, establis hes the general legal framework 
for environmental protection in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory. Policies for environm ental protection have been 
prepared in cooperation and coordination with all ministries. Several sub-strategies have also been drawn up, such as the solid 
waste strategy and the comprehensiv e plan on dangerous waste, an 
emergency plan to protect nature, and the national strategy to fight 
desertification and adap t to climate change. 
 
The Palestinian Government ha s also developed a National 
Strategy for Adaptation and cond ucting several Climate Change 
Awareness Campaigns. We are also preparing a National 
Adaptation Program of Action, Initial Communication Report and 5 
 Climate Change National Capacity Assessment in addition to 
implementing some pilot projects in the field of adaptation. 
 As an observer State in the Un ited Nations General Assembly, The 
State of Palestine has actively participated in multilateral 
environmental agreements confer ences and meetings. Palestine 
also participates in regional arrangements concerning the 
environment within the Arab League and Euro-Mediterranean 
partnership. Palestine also contin ues to cooperate closely with the 
United Nations, and its organs and agencies, on the 
implementation of various en vironment-related activities. 
 Palestine will also continue prepar ations to accede to the UNFCCC 
and other international treaties re lated to Climate protection. We 
look forward to our positive cont ribution as a member State in the 
future in order to play our ro le, along with the rest of the 
international community , in confronting the effects of climate 
change. 
 
Mr. President,  
Despite all its well-intentioned ef forts, the State of Palestine 
continues to face challenges that make environmental management 6 
 a very hard task. At the heart of this lies the continued Israeli 
occupation that fragments the Pale stinian land, obst ructs efforts to 
implement the measures re quired to protect the 
environment, controls and illega lly exploits natural resources, 
including land and water, destroys vital infrastructure, including 
water, as well as razes lands and up roots trees in order to establish 
illegal settlements, annexation wall and expand bypass roads. 
Furthermore, the practices outlin ed above are accompanied by lax 
environmental regulations awarde d to industries in the illegal 
settlements, resulting in the du mping of untreat ed sewage and 
wastewater, including untreated industrial waste from factories, 
into the valleys, streams, and underground water across the Occupied Palestinian Territory. The United Nations documented 
that illegal Israeli settlements in the West Bank, including East 
Jerusalem, generate 54 million cubic meters of domestic 
wastewater annually, with much of it entering the environment 
untreated. 
 
Apart from wastewater, solid wast e from the illegal settlements is 
dumped without restriction on Pa lestinian lands, fields and side 
roads, or is burned. Several polluting industries were relocated 
from Israel to the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including 
aluminium, tanning, plastics and electroplating, and do not abide 7 
 by any environmental laws. The in dustrial waste produced by these 
industries and other Israeli industri es illegally locat ed in the West 
Bank is disposed of on the nearby Palestinian agricultural lands, 
thereby constituting a threat to the environment. Needless to say, 
these practices degrade vegetation cover, biodiversity and 
landscape as well as pose document ed threat to the health and 
livelihoods of our people in affected areas. 
 
Finally Mr. President, allow me to remind that th rough the illegal 
practices and policies I have ju st outlined, the Occupying Power 
violates all norms and protocols aimed at combating climate 
change. Hence, we reite rate that collective re sponsibility requires 
that we do not shy away from ad dressing the special environmental 
needs of peoples living under oc cupation. Occupied peoples, like 
the rest of the people of the world, have a right to sustainable development and environmental protection and those rights should 
not be neglected or ignored. In our march to strengthen the 
foundations of the independent Stat e of Palestine, we call upon you 
to lend us a hand in making this heartfelt and successful effort a 
comprehensive reality; one that of fers our children the promise of 
freedom and a safe environment. 
 
Thank you Mr. President 