
Mr President , 
Mr Secretary , 
 
Israel is a small country in terms of size and population and proudly stands up to 
be counted as a Party wishing to take part in the efforts that all countries, each 
and every one of us , must make to address the harsh reality of clima te change. 
As a non -Annex I OECD member , we are clearly aware of the changes the world 
has undergone in the decades since th e Climate Change Co nvention was 
adopted. Ther efore, we realize tha t any agreement must be sufficiently dynamic 
and flexible to remain relevant and applicable for many years into the future. 
Indeed it seems that the best way to bring all countries on board is through 
genuine and open dialogue where differences are recognized and respected. We 
have learned that the countries themselves are the most qualified to determine 
their own domestic actions in accordan ce with national circumstance s. At the 
same time , in order to increase trust and ambition , there must be transparency 
and sharing of information. 
Commitment by all Parties to a fair and robust agreement would assist greatly in 
achieving a vision that would put the world on a sustainable path for achieving our 
global goal . This common path will require us all to abide by certain rules and to 
increase collective efforts. It is essential that we all know what the other is doing. 
Israel, for example has more than 60 years of experience adapting to semi -arid 
climatic conditions which has made her a hub of entrepreneurship and innovative 
technologies . We have developed a broad array of environmental and agricultural 
technologies that are becomi ng increasingly relevant to countries in our region 
and around the Mediterran ean. I am proud to note that we reuse over 90% of our wastewater 
which is a world record, with 80% of that amount going to agricultural 
use. This expertise is being utilized today , as it has been for the past 55 years, by 
MASHAV , Israel's agency for international development cooperation. In our 
development activities and partnerships with developing countries we share that 
experience and know how. 
Our knowledge and expertise in sp ecific areas should be channeled through the 
technology mechanism, specifically the Climate and Technology Center and 
Network , the CTCN, as a way for us to share experience with other countries. We 
look forward to being actively involved by contributing wh ere necessary and also 
expanding our involvement in other UNFCCC activit ies.  
All countries’ concerns lie with their own citizens and this is understandable. But 
in the end, it is the future generations who will be those citizens and they will 
wonder why we were not able to overcome our differences for such an important 
cause that could so significantly affect the survival of our planet . 
We are all in this together and must all play a part . 
Thank you and thanks to our Polish hosts for org anizing this extremely important 
conference.  