I sincerely thank you President Komorowski and the
people of Poland for the warmth of reception and gracious
hospitality accorded to me and my delegation since our
arrival in this beautiful city of Warsaw. On behalf of
African Heads of State and Government who I represent
here today, I wish to express our deepest appreciation to
your Excellency and your esteemed Government for a job
very well done of hosting and organising this Conference
so well. We congratulate Poland for assuming the
Presidency of COP 19/CMP 9 and pledge our full support
and cooperation.

Allow me also to commend the State of Qatar for the
good work done at COP 18/CMP 8 and during the
intervening period to this meeting. In a very special way I
would like to pay special tribute to my predecessor the
late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi for the wonderful job he
did representing the views of our dear continent, Africa. I
will try to do my level best to ensure that his legacy lives
on.

Furthermore, we express our deepest sorrow and
condolences to the people of the Philippines and Vietnam
for loss of lives and property caused by the recent
devastating typhoon. It speaks volumes about the
urgency of taking appropriate measures to deal with
climate change. Otherwise there will be more end even worse 
disasters now and in the future.

Mr. President,

It is an open secret that climate change poses one of
the biggest threats to humanity’s well being and existence
today. I know, a lot of efforts have been made and
continue to be made to address the devastating effects of
climate change. A lot of progress is being made as well.
However, much more remains and needs to be done. The
world looks to this COP 19/CMP 9 to take bold decisions
to advance the cause of fighting for the wellbeing of this
planet we all call home. The meeting provides us with
another opportunity to renew our commitment to
addressing the threats. We should use to the expectations.

For us in Africa, the successful outcome of Warsaw
will be an important milestone in our journey to Peru next
year and Paris in 2015 where we must ensure that we get a
new legal agreement. Failure to succeed at Paris will be
heartbreaking indeed.

Excellencies;
Ladies and Gentlemen;

Africa is facing a multitude of challenges from
climate change impacts. No other region of the world
displays a wider tange and diversity of challenges and
adversities caused by climate change. Unfortunately, we
do not have enough capacity for mitigation and
adaptation. The sad thing is Africa suffers so much,
despite having the smallest carbon footprints. Africa’s
per capita emission is, on average, less than 1 ton per
annum. And, with our current growth rate, our per capita
emission is not likely to exceed 2 tons, by 2030.

Mr. President;

Africa must be given the opportunity to take a
greener growth path through nationally appropriate
mitigation and adaptation actions. This calls for making
available adequate, sustainable and predictable financial
resources, transfer of technology on concessional basis,
establishment of modalities for financing Green Climate
Fund (GCF). We also call for equitable opportunities in
carbon trade.

UNEP Adaptation Gap Technical Report shows that
in a below 2°C warming pathway, adaptation costs in
Africa is estimated to be USD 35 billion per year by the
2040s and USD 200 billion per year by the 2070s. Going
by experience, these resources are unlikely to be realized.
For example, over the last three years, the financial
pledges made have not been met. Also, over 70 percent of
what has been delivered, has gone towards addressing
mitigation than adaptation. And much of it has gone to
more advanced developing countries than Africa.

This must change if we really want to move forward.
We need a Convention Framework that recognizes the
vulnerability of African States and address their limited
capacity in mitigation and adaption.

Mr. President,
The Framework should also embody the principle
of “Polluter pays and that of common but
differentiated responsibilities”. This is important
because it is in the interest of all countries, those in the
Kyoto Protocol and those outside it to increase their
carbon reduction ambition targets. Our position in
Africa is that developed countries should pluck-up
political will and take appropriate action to reduce Green
House Gases (GHGs) by between 25 percent and 40
percent by 2020 and by between 80 percent and 95
percent by 2050 below 1990 levels in line with the
recommendation of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC). In this regard, we urge all parties to
ratify the Doha Amendments for the Second
Commitment Period of the Kyoto Protocol.

It is heart warming indeed to note that many
African countries are already making serious efforts to
address climate change through a number of actions.
Many African countries, including my own country,
have put in place national climate change strategies that
provide the financial, technological and capacity needs to
address climate change. We have set aside millions of
hectares of land as forest reserves and national parks that
are sequestering carbon dioxide emissions produced elsewhere.

As we come towards the end of this meeting Africa
wants to go home with the following:
1.International institutional mechanism to
address loss and damage due climate change
should in place.

2.The institution for ensuring and supervising
financial support to developing countries to
deal with issues related to REDD+ must be
agreed.

3. Reporting mechanisms and guidelines which
will allow monitoring of actions to reduce
emissions in developed countries need to be
agreed.

4. Elements and framework on how developed
countries will increase their emission reduction
ambitions need to be elaborated.

5. There is urgent need for Green Climate Fund
capitalization and agreement on how the
promised USD 100 billion annually by 2020 will be realised
and distributed

6. The Climate Technology Centre and Network
should be ensure mechanism to address barriers
related technology transfer including the issue
of intellectual property rights are addressed.

7. At this COP we also need to ensure that
elements for increased emission reduction
ambitions are agreed.

Mr. President;

Let me end by reiterating that Africa welcomes the
United Nations Secretary General’s call for a Leader’s
Summit in 2014. We hope that the Warsaw Outcome will
address the way forward in implementation of the Doha
Gateway, including access to finance, technology transfer
and an inclusive roadmap with clear commitment in all
areas at COP 20 in Lima, Peru and a meaningful
agreement at COP 21 in Paris.

Africa looks forward to constructive engagements

and successful conclusions of the conference.



