Session OF CONICrencCe Of Farules Warsaw romana

Honorable Chair,
Honorable Ministers,
Distinguished Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,

On behalf of the Republic of Turkey, I would like to
express my sincere appreciation to the Government and
the people of Poland for hosting this Conference.

We would like to thank you for your warm hospitality.

I would like to express my sincere condolences for the
loss of human lives suffered by the Philippines, due to the

typhoon.

Least Developed Countries and Small Island States,
such as Philippines, have the least historical
responsibility. But in return they are the most
affected.

As Turkey we are ready to help all these countries as we
immediately sent disaster relief for the victims of the

Distinguished Delegates,

Climate change seriously endangers our earth. It’s a
global problem and we need global solutions.

And now we are building the new era.

The new era should be inclusive which means no party
should be excluded.

The new era should be flexible which means all Parties
should contribute within the boundaries of national
responsibilities and capabilities.

The new era should be dynamic which means the national
contributions may change in time.

The new era should be strong which means the rights
of the Least Developed Countries and Small Island
States should be protected.

The new era should be comprehensive which means it
should cover the adaptation, finance, technology transfer
and capacity building as well as the mitigation.

The new era should reflect the current realities and
take the needs of present and future generations into
account.

TOW Old dla We Ndve lO iltidiiIZ© OUL WOK Hi balls.

Distinguished Delegates,

Turkey is a rapidly developing country and in accordance
with the sustainable development we are doing our best
for climate change.

We adopted our National Climate Change Strategy
and prepared a National Climate Change Action Plan.

We are carrying out very important projects in energy,
industry, transport, agriculture, forestry and waste sectors.

For example, we give high priority to renewable
energy. We are increasing the share of renewable
energy up to 30 percent by 2023.

We are enlarging the total area of our forests up to 30

percent until 2023.

However Turkey is an Annex-I Party with special
circumstances and we need international support for
the climate change.

supporting Turkey. Although no progress was achieved
here in Warsaw, we believe that the required COP
decision will be adopted in the near future.

Before concluding my remarks, I would like to
emphasize that this forum aiming at a cooperative
action, should not be abused by any Party by
irrelevant political remarks as the Greek Cypriot
delegate did yesterday.

I wish all the Parties a successful outcome here in
Warsaw.

Thank you very much.

