 
Statement by Nepal on behalf of the 
Group of Least Developed Countries 
High-level Segment of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change COP 19/CMP 9 
 
His Excellency Durga Prasad Bhattarai 
Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Nepal to the United 
Nations, New York 
 19 November 2013, Warsaw  1 Mr. President, 
Your Excellency, Donald Tusk, Prime Minister of Pol and, 
Your Excellency, Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, Preside nt of Tanzania, 
Your Excellency, Dr. John Ashe, President of the 68th Session of the UN 
General Assembly, 
Mr. Ban Ki-Moon, Secretary-General of the United Na tions, 
Honourable Ministers, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Nepal has the honour to make this statement on beha lf of the Group of 49 Least 
Developed Countries, spread over three continents a nd comprising nearly a 
billion people, including the weakest and the most vulnerable, having to bear the 
most disproportionate and existential threats of cl imate change. 
 
I would like to associate my statement with the sta tement made by the 
Honourable Minister of Fiji on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
 
Mr. President, 
I wish to begin by congratulating you on your assum ption of the Presidency of the 
UNFCCC COP19/CMP9 and assuring you of our support t o your important task 
of achieving meaningful outcome in Warsaw. I also t ake this opportunity to 
express our sincere appreciation to the Government of Poland for the warm 
hospitality extended to all our delegates. 
 
Mr. President, 
Science is absolutely clear, now more than ever. Th e human-induced climate 
change has increased global temperature provoking h eat extremes, lowering 
precipitation and causing higher aridity. It has m elted glaciers, raised sea levels, 
and brought about more extreme and erratic weather events. The IPCC and 
other scientific data warn that there may be worse ahead if we do not act now the 
way we should. 
 2 Even while meeting here this month, we witnessed th e excruciating impacts of 
the Typhoon Haiyan. We deeply sympathize with the people of the Philippines 
and other countries impacted by this typhoon. Our hearts and prayers go out to 
the victims of this and several other tragedies hap pening around the world every 
day.  
Extensive and increasing effects of climate change are not new to LDCs. Fifty 
one per cent of the deaths caused by climate-related disasters in the 33 years 
between 1980 and 2013 occurred in the LDCs, nearly five times the global 
average. During the last three years, this figure rose to 67 per cent , more than 
5 times the global average. 
 
Climate change poses a real and costly threat to th e very existence of our 
societies, countries and peoples. We pay for clima te change in lives. 
 
Worse, it exacerbates the development challenges th at the LDCs are already 
facing.  
 
Mr. President, 
Despite these difficulties, the LDCs have stood up and taken significant actions to 
combat climate change in line with the UNFCCC. 
 
Forty-eight LDCs have submitted NAPAs. Some of us have also started 
formulating our medium- and long-term adaptation pl ans, thanks to the 
development partners that have contributed to the L DC Fund. However, the 
finance provided so far by developed partners pursu ant is extremely insufficient 
even to address our urgent and immediate adaptation needs. We have done our 
part and we urge developed nations to meet their fi nancial commitments, and 
show leadership.  
 
Likewise, twelve LDCs have voluntarily submitted NA MAs, going above and 
beyond their responsibilities and capacities. Our countries have also started 
ratifying the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. Nine LDCs have 
started formulating low carbon development strategi es. As you can see, we 
suffer, but we pull ourselves together. We believe this is the way forward to 3 address climate change: collective action and contr ibutions even beyond the 
legal requirements.  
 
Mr. President, 
During this second week of negotiations, we urge al l Parties to agree on clear 
roadmaps with timelines and deliverables on three k ey issues. 
 
First, finance. We need to develop a credible pathw ay for climate finance to reach 
the 100 billion USD goal set for 2020. This pathwa y must include clear 
arrangements to reach 60 billion USD by 2016, and a llocate 50 per cent for 
adaptation. Detailed monitoring, reporting, and ver ification (MRV) system of the 
financial support must be defined, and the scale an d share between public and 
private sources of finance clarified. 
 
Second, the 2015 Agreement. We must agree on a dec ision that maps out our 
plans to negotiate a new protocol applicable to all Parties with clear timelines, 
milestones and deliverables to complete the work of the ADP by 2015, and 
ensure that the Protocol is implemented from 2020. 
 
Third, mitigation ambition. We must reach a decisio n on a workplan with clear 
timelines and deliverables to raise pre-2020 mitiga tion ambition, with a view to 
ensure the highest possible mitigation efforts by a ll Parties. 
 
It is of utmost importance that we set up, right he re in Warsaw, an international 
mechanism on loss and damage associated with climat e change impacts in 
developing countries that are particularly vulnerab le to the adverse effects of 
climate change. 
 
Mr. President, 
We urge all Parties to engage with us in these step s and reach agreement on 
concrete outcomes here in Warsaw. There is no “tom orrow” if we don’t take the 
necessary actions “today”. 
 
There can be no “tomorrow” for finance, since we ne ed urgent support to develop 
the resilience to adapt before more damages occur. 
 4 There can be no “tomorrow” for closing the emission s gap, since science shows 
that without urgent action it will not be possible to maintain the 1.5 degrees 
Celsius goal. 
 
There can be no “tomorrow” for the new climate agre ement, because the 
Convention and the decisions taken so far require u s to agree on a text by 2015. 
 
And there can be no “tomorrow” for a decision on lo ss and damage, since lives 
and livelihoods are at stake. 
 
To conclude, since procrastination can not be the r ight answer to face the 
menace of climate change, we urge you, Mr. Presiden t, to lead us towards the 
decisions we must take today, not tomorrow, in the interest of the planet we all so 
dearly care. 
 
Thank you. 