1 
 Statement by: 
 
H.E. Dr. Massoumeh Ebtekar 
Vice -President & Head of Department of Environment 
Islamic Republic of Iran 
 
 
 
COP19/CMP9 , UNFCCC 
 
20-22 Nov . 2013 
Warsaw -Poland 
 
 
 2 
 In the Name of God , the Compassionate, the Merciful 
 
 
Mr. President , 
Honorable Ministers and Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen , 
 
At the outset , I wish to express my sincere gratitude to the government and 
people of Poland for hosting this august C onference and the hospitality extended to 
my delegation. First and foremost, I would like to associate myself with the 
statem ents made on behalf of G77 and C hina as well as the positions delivered by 
LMDCs , are a group of countries with mo re than half the world's population and 
the global share of GDP. 
I shall attem pt to stand much focused o n the issues of relevance to my 
country along with the principles desired to be adequately reflected in the structure 
of the new agreement in coherence with the ADP. 
I wish to emphasize the new vision on sustainable development pr omoted by 
the recently elected President, Dr. Rouhani. 
Mr. President, 
Climate change and its global warming phenomenon is in essence an all 
inclusive predicament that requires collective and harmonious political will and 
practical measures. A transformatio n of global development policy and directions 
from pure profit and selfish material gain to social and humanitarian gain is the 
cornerstone of all efforts. These measures -contemplated by the parties to 
UNFCCC - would have to be based on fair criteria, equit y and CBDR with their 
respective capabilities. The historical responsibilities are to be met. Legal 
obligations and commitment are to be respected and responded to in a favourable 
fashion. In this regard the progresses and actions taken by the big economie s would 
necessarily have to be MRV in nature. 
In our region escalation of violence and terrorism coupled with a long history of 
military intervention and armed conflict has increased the vulnerability of nations.  
We are in critical time and it is necessa ry that the developed country Parties take 
the lead in reducing their emissions by undertaking ambitious mitigation. The key 
to increase the level of ambitions to reduce emissions lies with the developed 
country Parties’ political will and the recognition of their historical responsibility. 
The principles of the Convention should guide the discussions of the Durban 
Platform, and they shall not be renegotiated. The negotiations should be based on 
comprehensive issues and address all the agreed outcomes in pr evious sessions. 3 
 The outcome of the negotiations on the enhanced platform should be 
supplementary to the Kyoto Protocol as well as address all the five pillars of Bali 
Action Plan adequately and not limit discussion to mitigation . 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
The findings of the "IPCC's Fifth Assessment R eport " are scientifically 
credible and are acknowledged. In this report it may clearly be seen that the Middle 
East region is currently experiencing har sher reduction of rain fall and well above 
global average temp erature rise du e to the adverse impacts of Climate Chan ge. In 
the same report the temperate rise trend to the end of the current century is 
extremely alarming. To this effect , my region is faced with sever episodes of 
emerging environmental challenges such as continuous dr aught, dust and sand 
storms. W ater resources availability in Iran has reached its critica l limit. 
However illegal and unintelligent sanctions imposed upon the Islamic 
Republic of Iran have impeded our advances and have led to serious dela ys in 
energy efficiency plans and mitigation measures.  Also 45 major wetlands are in 
critical condition.  Wetlands such as Uromia  or Hamoon are no longer of fering 
their ecosystem services. A gricultural activities, food security and health concerns 
have b ecome serious threats. Hence, in the new agreement significant weight 
should be dedicated to "Adaptation" and the means to ensure implementation of 
pertine nt collective response measures. 
In this regard Islamic Republic of Iran offers to establish a "Regio nal Centre 
for Early Warning and Monitoring System" with the joint collaboration of the 
international institutions and the countries in the region to further strengthen its 
"Adaptation Activities" at regional scale to issues su ch as draught, Dust Storms a nd 
Dust Haze Phenomenon . 
 
 
 
 
Mr. President,  Distinguished Delegates; 
Post-2020 as a negotiation process should be based on all aspects of the principles 
of convention particularly principles of equity and common but differentiated 
responsibilities. New a greement must address historical responsibility of developed 
countries and developed countries must stop any attempt the transfer the burden of 
addressing climate change to developing countries. It is essential that the developed 
country Parties make clari fication on their quantified economy -wide emission 
reduction targets. In this regards, in new agreement, we need strong monitoring 
system on implementation of commitments. Reform of CDM mechanism in 4 
 framework of new agreement, should keep and strengthen it policy in 
framework of investment by Annex -I countries in non -Annex I countries in 
small -scale and large -scale projects aiming to achieve emissions reductions. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
There ar e three links in the Mitigation chain : Energy, Technology and 
Finan ce. For energy all parties are to be encouraged to develop their national 
energy mix to diversify utilization of alternative sources of clean and low carbon 
intensity energy with emphasis on increased share of clean and environmentally 
friendly energy pro duction and consumption pattern s. Islamic Republic of Iran has 
taken a number of huge voluntary mitigation steps in reducing the cold and hot 
flares and is committed to continue its activities. On the issue of technology and 
capacity, there have bee n some gray areas since the inception of UNFCCC. 
The development and transfer of climate change technology, capacity 
building and IPR are ever becoming serious hurdles to be remove .T he developed 
countries should deeply engage their administrations to meet thei r historical 
responsibilities and obligations. In this regard CTCN is expected to take a critical 
responsibility. The institutional arrangement between the NDEs and CTCN is to be 
defined and established. Islamic Republic of Iran attaches high importance to the 
CTCN and invites all parties to effe ctively support its role in practice. 
Distinguished Colleagues , 
The third link is "Finance" . Whilst emphasizing on the materialization of 
article 4.8 o f the c onvention by the developed countries, Islamic Republic o f Iran 
wishes to see a "Green Climate Fund" fitting the size of the need to adapt and 
mitigate. The pledges, promises and potentials should turn in to practice. New and 
additional public funds are to be dedicated. Public -Private Partnerships are to be 
enco uraged to augment the public funds and not to replace them. A t the same time 
attractive "Market based Mechanisms" should be devised and the list of CDM 
qualified projects diversified to broaden its inclusion. Such positive mechanisms 
are to be strengthened and promoted in the new agreement. Iran supports a special 
GCF window on technology.  
Mr. President, 
In conclusion, I wish to highlight and make a very strong point. Despite 
paragraph 5 of Article 3 of UNFCCC as well as the paragraphs 58 and 281 in the 
outcome document of Rio+20 su mmit, (T he Future We W ant!) , which wa s later 
approved and endorsed by the 67th UN General Assembly in October 2012 , the 
devastating environmental effects of cruel sanctions on Iran are being ignored. The 
environmental consequen ces of such discriminatory actions by certain parties, have 5 
 not only deteriorated the Climate C hange vulnerable environment of Iran and the 
region , but also has given rise to the potential of global warming targeting the 
global environment. This is partic ularly true in offsetting the mitigation efforts 
contemplated in the energy sector ( oil, gas and power) in Iran in compliance with 
UNFCCC 's mandate.  
Islamic Republic of Iran is very much committed to the UN lea d efforts to 
combat Climate Chan ge driven impacts and is determined to ensure a holistic 
approach to the formulation of a new post 2020 agreement guided by the principles 
of the Convention to guarantee the basic God granted rights of the present and 
future generations. 
Thank you for your patience a nd attention.    
 
  
 
 
 
 