Peter Altmaier

- check against delivery! -

Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen!

In a few days' time, we will be marking the 65th anniversary of one of
the milestones in human history - the adoption of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights by the UN General Assembly on 10

December 1948.
This Declaration was a milestone because it was the first time ever that

a codex setting out universal human rights was adopted at international
level.

Humankind had learnt from the devastating experiences of two world
wars.

In 2015, once again in Paris, the United Nations must succeed in
adopting a climate agreement that is binding for all states.

Securing this agreement is the most important duty of humanitarian

solidarity in the 21% century.
Climate change means the devastation of our native heritage.

Climate change is ruining the hopes of prosperity and development for
millions if not billions of people. The devastating typhoon Haiyan that hit
the Philippines is the latest staggering example. I would like to express
my sincere solidarity with the Philippine nation.

We have a responsibility to act.

Every country,

every individual,

right now!

Because we know that climate change is human-made.

We must do everything in our power to ensure that a historic agreement

ne | ee ee ee ee es ee ee ee Fae i ol

CAPGIISION OF POMC WaAUIC CHEIQy allt SUPVUIL Cau VUTC! GMs Se Ta

Ladies and Gentlemen,
In Durban we set the course for a comprehensive climate agreement.
Here in Warsaw, we are mapping the path we must take to reach it.

The agreement will only be effective if we realise three goals:

1. A legally binding agreement for a//states. Because Parties will only
take on commitments if they know that other states are doing the
same according to their respective capabilities.

2. Long-term strategies: We can no longer think in years, we must
think in decades. This applies to all areas, especially financing.

3. Verifiability: National efforts of all states must be verifiable
according to scientific criteria. We have not yet achieved this goal.
We must therefore hold the vital discussion on who will contribute
how much to climate action. And we must review whether the
targets are sufficient to stay below the 2 degree limit.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

You have my assurances that the new German government will stand by
its climate targets:

Minus 40 percent greenhouse gas emissions by 2020,

minus 55 percent by 2030 and minus 80 to 95 percent by 2050.

We have begun to consistently transform our energy system into one
based on renewable energies and greater energy efficiency.

In just a few years we have increased the renewables’ share in energy
supply to nearly 25 percent.

We will continue resolutely down this path with our Energiewende.

Germany is among the world's largest contributors of climate finance.

Thie vane aAlaAnnA um ara ANNA tn cantrh ta 4 Ental Af 1 2 Aan anronc

We are active at European level as well: We will advocate an emissions
reduction of at least 40 percent by 2030 within the European Union, and
work hard for an effective European emissions trading scheme.

The agreement on the backloading of 900 million allowances was an
important step signalling that we take climate action very seriously.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

In 1948, by adopting the Declaration of Human Rights, the United
Nations showed that we can learn from the past.

Today, we must show that we can learn from the future.

That we no longer have to take our lesson from disasters, but have
learnt to avoid them.

Let us grasp this opportunity!

Let us learn from the future!

