
First of all, in behalf of the Philippine delegation, I would like to express
our sincerest gratitude in the outpouring of sympathy for our country
expressed by the citizens of this world. As the Philippine delegation tries
to focus on our work here, we cannot avoid being distracted as our
hearts and minds are back home. But we have work to do. We may be
tired but we are not broken.
Let me just point out some events going to this conference. In
September this year, the inter-governmental panel on climate change
concluded that human influence on the climate system is clear. That is it
extremely likely that human influence has been the dominant cause of
the observed warming since the mid-20th century. Thatwarming in the
climate system is unequivocal.
According to the Mauna Loa Observatory of Hawaii, as of October 2013,
it confirmed an increasing trend in C0 2 emissions. Other reports of
greenhouse gas such asmethane and nitrous oxide are also showing the
same trend.
In November 8 of this year, the world was witness to Typhoon Haiyan or
locally known to us as Typhoon Yolanda. The timing of Typhoon Haiyan
to this climate talks is impeccable. It is like some divine hand is trying to
send us a message, reminding us why we are all here in the first place.
The world was united when we all signed into this convention 21 years
ago and came into force 2 years after. The main objective is to "stabilize
greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level thatwould
prevent dangerous anthropogenic or human interference with the
climate system.
19 years has passed since the convention came into force. And if we
were to review our progress, would it be right for me to conclude that
we failed miserably? Looking at science, and how it manifested itself not
only on Typhoon Haiyan, but also other events like Katrina in the United
States, Heatwave in France, the wildfires in Australia and other extreme
events occurring after observed increased warming, should not we all be
ashamed being here?
You cannot blame us for being impatient. We cannot go on negotiating
every year without concrete action to avoid further warming. We now
know that warming oceans fuel super typhoons. And that, in all
probability, this is going to be the norm. We are forced to brace for
these changes even if it was not our fault.
You see, if the developed countries have shown the leadership to reduce
greenhouse gases at the onset of this convention, we, the most
vulnerable would not have to adapt. We would not have the need to
push for adaptation support.
I now ask this question, is this convention still relevant to the times?
Every time we attend this conference, I am beginning to feel like that
we are negotiating on who is to live and who is to die.
We have all reasons to be angry, because we put our faith on this
process 21 years ago and yet we still could not get together to act
despite the sense of urgency. We all signed it because at the end of the
day, we are citizens of the only planet we have.
We continually engaged in this process because we all acknowledge that
this requires a global response. We want to be part of a concerted effort,
believing that what we agreedwould be respected and implemented.
That we are motivated by accepted science. Thatwe are so interconnected,
that the suffering of one is a concern to others;
That we are,most of all, guided not only because is it moral to do so, but
because it is our obligation to do so.
We are disheartened by declarations of several developed countries that
they cannot meet their commitments. Shifting mitigation
responsibilities to developing countries will not solve the problem.
These comes at a time when we need to see more ambition based on
equity, to show more enhanced action due to its urgency. We may not
be rich but we are a proud people. WHENWE COMMIT, WE DELIVER.
We have been ready to contribute based on the ground rules of equity,
common but differentiated responsibility as espoused under this
convention. We all signed up to that.
We must keep stressing that we are looking for constant progress and
increases in ambition on all fronts (mitigation, adaptation, finance,
technology) as these will create the conditions for a successful
conclusion, rather than regression in some cases and very weak
ambition in others.
In the face of the suffering of vulnerable countries, we need to see a
higher mitigation ambition from our developed country partners.
We demand support so that we can contribute more.
In the face of historical emissions of developed countries and current
inaction, we demand the institutionalization of a mechanism that can
help our countries face the losses and damages that climate change will
bring.
Ultimately, this is not simply about the text, as we all know. This
ultimately is about the long-term future of our countries and our
peoples. This is about whether our countries will be able to preserve the
space that the Convention provides to us and which we need in order to
adapt to climate change effectively and build a better and more climateresilient
economic future for our peoples.
These climate talks started with Typhoon Haiyan as the backdrop. We
are encouragedby the immediate support shown by the international
community. We are deeply touched especially here in Poland to see
ordinary citizens in churches giving donations to the Philippines.
We have seen how the world showed overwhelming sympathy for the
Filipino people, and for thatwe are truly grateful. And these pictures of
solidarity showed by your constituencies give us hope. That when push
comes to shove, we show our humanity. That despite our language
barriers, we speak as one.
Typhoon Haiyan however showed us not only suffering but also stories
of resiliency. How our people are still able to smile despite being barely
able to eat. We may need help but we are not helpless.
Again, we are grateful for the relief support. But as the word suggests,
relief is only temporary.
The reason why Haiyan got so much attention, was not just the suffering
after, but the sheer magnitude and strength of the storm, never before
seen in recent memory. Days before Haiyan, news all over the world
covered the impending typhoon. It was described by experts as “off the
charts”. This allowed us to prepare using whatever resources we had
and braced for impact. We were probably ready for Category 1 to 3
storms but not as strong as Haiyan.
We are humbled by comments on the response, and our government
never lacked the intention to respond as fast as we can under the
circumstances. You probably know of Haiyan but most of you probably
do not know that those weeks before Haiyan, we had to deal with an
earthquake with a magnitude of 7.2.Weeks before the earthquake, we
had to deal with another typhoon locally known as Vinta.
We only average 19 to 20 typhoons in a year, but Haiyan was already the
24th. Haiyan was followed 5 days by another typhoon locally known as
Zoraida. And according to our experts, we are expecting at least 2 more
before the year ends. We are running out of alphabets to name our
typhoons.
Our resources are stretched but we will rise above this by focusing more
on rebuilding back better. Better means planning long term based on
vulnerabilities. With a perspective that defensive expenditure is an
investment.
There are extreme weather events thatwe might not be able to adapt to.
That is why loss and damage is important to us. Loss and damage is not
compensation but prevention. Our reality is, we will have to prepare for
events stronger than Haiyan.
We are pushing for a loss and damage agreement simply because we do
not want to be anywhere else. Knowing that the level of ambition of
reducing emission is much to be desired and that increasing
temperature will highly be likely, loss and damage is imperative.
We want to be where we are hence our desire to strengthen our
resiliency against climate change. We have seen exodus of people
moving out of affected areas, but most of them are still hoping to be
able to return as soon as the situation permits. We intend to translate
the hope to reality.
As we mourn the dead, we have to take care of the living. And that will
entail support thatwill last for months. The cost of the damage from
natural disasters like Haiyan will result to an 8 to 10 percent reduction of
our GDP growthand will likely still have an impact till 2014.
As we try to improve our financial capacity, we have to be cautious
however in accessing financing thatwill addmore burdens and limit our
capacity to alleviate poverty.
International climate financing must address the needs first and profit
last. We agree that it should be sustainable but it should also be
responsive.
The swift capitalization of the Green Climate Fund is critical to helping
developing countries adapt to and cope with the worsening impacts of
climate change. The Philippines as the current co chair of the Green
Climate Fund, is committed to exercising leadership and ensuring the
essential requirements are fulfilled by September 2014 so money will
start flowing to countries that are in need andmost vulnerable. Many of
our countries have put in place enabling policy environment to make our
economies resilient, rebuild communities better and in a
transformationalmanner –but we need international support to help us
bridge the gapand make this transition towards climate-resilient lowemission
development.
For the last 19 years, we meet but defer from year to year issues we
cannot agree on. However, we cannot anymore afford to be doing
business as usual. Climate Change is not something that we should be
flirting with. For us and for other poorer countries, this is real. And this
also holds true for bigger economies, but the biggest difference is our
capacity to respond.
We have to be forward looking because our past efforts were proven to
be not enough. Our concern is not yesterday, our concern is today,
tomorrow and thereafter. Our biggest concern is time. Because time is
no longer on our side.
We reiterate our call for an effective and enhanced implementation of
the convention that will produce concrete results and in an integrated
manner - including with respect to strong mitigation ambition from
those who are supposed to lead this, effective action on adaptation,
enhanced flows of financing and technology transfer to developing
countries, andmore operational capacity building activities.
We remain committed to the objectives of the convention and we hope
that the COP Presidency will lead us to the rightful path.
After Haiyan, we have seen how our little boys become men overnight.
We see pictures of men playing basketball in the midst of debris. We are
a people with a good of sense of humor, and we are using it to cope,
knowing that there is nothing laughable about their ordeal. Our women,
most especially, have shown strength in character, and selflessness. In
all these, we are each other’s source of strength. That makes me proud
to be a Filipino.
Citing messages posted by my countrymen affected by Haiyan, “
Roofless, Homeless but not Hopeless”
The Philippines may have fallen victim this early, but we will all
eventually become victims of climate change. We do not wish to
happen to anyone what happened in our country, but these can happen
to you too. And hopefully these events, not only in the Philippines but in
other countries as well, will serve as strong reminder that the time to act
has long started. We can no longer afford any delay. This is not for us
only. This is for our youth, the current generation and the future.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.