Let me begin with expressing our deep appreciation to the Government
of Poland for hosting this milestone event on climate change and providing
every support to enable the activities of the Conference. I also join others in
congratulating Mr. Marcin Korolec with his election as President of COP-19
and CMP-9.

Mr. President,

The Republic of Uzbekistan has been consistent in meeting its
commitments under the UNFCCC. Climate change mitigation measures have
been successfully implemented in the country, in particular through enhancing
projects on clean development mechanism (CDM), development of renewable
energy sources as well as improving energy efficiency.

Uzbekistan keeps leading CDM position among CIS and Eastern
European countries.

The consistent steps were undertaken to develop renewable energy
sector in the country. In particular, on 1 march 2013 President of Uzbekistan
signed a decree “On measures on further development of alternative sources of
energy”. It outlines the research, financial and institutional framework for
further developments and practical use of alternative sources of energy in
Uzbekistan. 

On 20-23 november 2013 Uzbekistan is hosting the 6th Asia Solar Energy Forum
(ASEF) on Solar Energy Technology Trends and Opportunities. Ministers 
and over 100 international developers and suppliers of solar energy projects
and others from developed and developing countries are participating in the event.

Uzbekistan approved two NAMA project proposals: “Economics of
Climate Change in Central and West Asia” co-financed by the Asian Clean
Energy Fund and ADB, and a joint UNDP and International NAMA Facility
project “NAMA for Sustainable Rural Housing in Uzbekistan”. It’s also
remarkable that Adaptation Fund Board approved the Uzbekistan’s project
proposal "Developing Climate Resilience of Farming Communities in the
Drought Prone Parts of Uzbekistan".

Mr. President,

Uzbekistan attaches high importance to the adoption of a new
international agreement on climate change we believe that the long-term joint
actions should be guided by the purposes and principles of UNFCCC taking
into account the national commitments of the Parties.

We share the views on the necessity of holistic approach to international
climate change cooperation and balanced actions both for adaptation measures
and mitigation efforts.

In implementing climate change measures the national needs and
development tendencies of economies should be taken into account Therefore
the principle of "common but differentiated responsibilities" remains a‘key in
designing future international strategy to combat climate change.

We think that in the new legal document which has to be prepared, and
also in our approaches to climate change issues, as a whole, we have to have a
clear understanding of the fact that efforts in coping with climate change
should be consistent with the principles of sustainable development.

It important to enhance the work on development and trnasfer of technologies to 
supprot actions on climate change mitigation. To advance the Climate
Technology Centre and Network, we nominated national agencies for the 
development and transfer of technologies.

The importance of ensuring fast and long-term financing of the needs of
the developing countries in tackling the climate change challenges should be
underscored. Financing should be provided in a fair, equal and geographically
equitable manner.

Mr. President,

Taking this opportunity let me briefly mention some of the challenges of
climate change for my country, and also for our region, as a whole. They
include: water resources deficit, decrease in quality of drinking water, land,
biodiversity and glaciers degradation , Aral Sea and rivers deltas continuous
degradation.

Droughts occur more frequently and become more severe but water
demand higher. These circumstances don’t allow to harmonize water demand
and water availability both for drinking and irrigation needs. In our country,
and also in the region as a whole, people are mainly involved in agriculture
and their livelihood directly depends on rural sector.

Therefore, we are convinced that in our discussions on climate change
due attention for issues of water security and rational use of natural resources
should be given.

Let me also add that when we talk about the Aral Sea disaster the key issues
are preventing full destruction and protecting remaining the echo system of the
Aral Sea, securing the minimum living conditions for people and
preserving the avaliable fora and Tauna. These issues are in the focuse of the
“Program of Measures on Eliminating the Consequences of Drying up of the
Aral Sea and Averting the Catastrophe of the Ecological Systems in the Aral
Sea Region” which has recently been circulated as an official document of the
68" session of the UN General Assembly upon the request of the Republic of
Uzbekistan as a chairing country in the International Fund for saving the Aral
Sea (IFAS) 

Mr. President,

In conclusion let me reiterate my country's commitment to work towards
a successful and agreed outcome of international climate change negotiations
in designing a new international legal framework applicable to all.

