STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY
MINISTER FOR WOMEN, SOCIAL WELFARE AND POVERTY
ALLEVIATION, DR. JIKO LUVENI, UNFCCC HIGH-LEVEL SEGMENT,
CHAIR OF G77 & CHINA, AT THE OPENING OF THE HIGH-LEVEL
SEGMENT OF THE 19TH CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES AND 9TH
SESSION OF CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES SERVING AS THE
MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL, POLAND,
WARSAW, 19 NOVEMBER, 2013.

Mr President,
His Excellency the Secretary General of the United Nations

Madam Executive Secretary,

Excellencies,

Distinguished Representatives,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

1.

This is a historic Conference. This is the first COP where the commitments on
mitigation by developed country Parties is lower at the end of the COP than where
they started at the beginning of this Conference.

How much more back sliding are we going to see, not just in mitigation ambition but
in areas of adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, transparency
and capacity building. We call on Annex I Parties to shoulder your responsibilities.
The developing countries are doing more than their share. This is borne out by
various studies. We call on Annex I Parties to have the commitment to set right this

anamoly.

It is highly disappointing and indeed regrettably inadequate, that at a juncture such
as this, when we are so full of enthusiasm and determination to discuss, analyze,
assess and determine for ourselves, an instrument that will guide our behavior and
regulate our affairs for the benefit of this and the future generations, in as far as the
climate regime is concerned, that we are now witnessing retractions by some parties

from their obligation and from their leadership role, in these processes.

substantially deviate from its promised target to a level much less compatible with
previously stated pledge. In a more recent forum, Australia and Canada clearly
demonstrated their unwillingness to show increased ambition by reserving their
Position on the Green Climate Fund , thus, conclusively confirming _ their

unwillingness to move forward in these endeavor.

. When we left to come to Warsaw, we were anticipating this Conference to be an
Implementation COP. We anticipated that here, we will see visible signs of Parties
exhibiting their serious desire, willingness and commitment to implement the Bali
Action Plan. The implementation of the Bali Action Plan and the Bali Road Map, as
well as of the decisions from the Cancun, Durban, and Doha COPs, in accordance
with the principles and provisions of the Convention are relevant as the foundation

for future success and necessary for the credibility of this multilateral process.

. After one week of intense negotiations, our technical people have advised that
things are not looking promising in Warsaw. This is a source of major concern within
our Group, despite the best efforts of our delegations. We urge Developed Country
Parties, to show leadership. This process is at a critical juncture where leadership is
desperately desired. The Convention clearly stipulates where leadership lies.

. In this context, we recall Article 3.1 of the Convention where, inter alia,
it is also incumbent that "developed country Parties should take the lead
in combating climate change and the adverse effects thereof."

. We would also like to underline the importance of Article 4.1 while
dealing with the matter of commitments in the context of CBDR and

national circumstances.

- Concerning agriculture, we believe that the rich exchange of views by
Parties during the in-session workshop held last week and the
submissions of parties and admitted observers organizations, will draw

the way forward on how to enhance adaptation of agriculture to climate
change impacts as a priority , as well as possible adaptation co-benefits.

Mr. President,

10. The Group of 77 and China has earlier articulated its priorities for
COP19 at the opening of this session. Despite one week of negotiations,
there still remains a serious lack of clarity on the predictable scale up of
the provision of finance up to 100 billion USD per year by 2020. Three
years after its launching in Durban, the Green Climate Fund, as I speak,
remains an empty shell. It is absolutely necessary that we see a rapid
and substantial initial capitalization and an ambitious resource
mobilization for the GCF for 2014. Clarity on Finance, including for the
transfer of technology, and capacity-building, which is the basic
foundation of any ambitious action on climate change is essential if

Warsaw is to be a success.
Mr. President,

11. The full implementation of the Decision adopted in Doha related to
Loss and Damage, taking into account the principles of the Convention
and the national development processes cannot be over emphasized.
Carrying out such actions requires the provision of adequate support
and creating the appropriate arrangements and calling for meaningful
activities. Fulfilling the mandate of Doha on Loss and Damage remains
as a key elements for the success of the COP19. Our Group is working
hard at this Conference to realize this. We request reciprocity.

12. Iwill reiterate once again the Group's call on the vital importance for
a balanced treatment of all items in this Conference. In this regard,
Adaptation remains a priority for us and it ought to be treated with
commensurate urgency. Last week, our Group has observed that
particular emphasis on New Markets remains, the preoccupation of our
partners. This too is an imbalance.

Mr. President,

13. Group of 77 and China continues to call for the entering into force,
and as soon as possible of the amendments adopted in Doha in relation
to the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. It is paramount
that the ambition mechanism launched in Doha effectively results in the
increase of the ambition of Annex I Parties’ quantified emissions
reduction and limitation commitments for the second commitment
period. We therefore once again urge all Annex I Parties to the Kyoto
Protocol to expeditiously go through the relevant legal procedures
necessary to bring the amendments into force as soon as possible, and
to revisit and significantly increase their quantified emissions reduction
and limitation commitments by 2014. It is crucial that we should ensure
the operationalization and implementation of the 2014 Revisit
Mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol in Warsaw.

14. We have agreed that the 2015 Outcome for the post-2020 period
should be guided by the Principles and Provisions of the Convention, on
the basis of Equity and in accordance with Common but Differentiated
Responsibilities, since we have agreed that the post-2020 outcome
should be “under the Convention”.

15. We can move to set ourselves ambitious goals for the post-2020
period only if we meet our commitments in the pre-2020 period. If not,
the post-2020 agreement will not yield the results we desire by way of
enhanced actions and ambition.

16. It is equally important to remember that the 2015 outcome should
not result in shifting the responsibility of the developed countries to the
developing countries. This cannot be the ultimate objective of the
Convention. We need to ensure that there is a reaffirmation of the
principles and provisions of the Convention so that we can work toward

the same goal with a spirit of purpose.

17. Finally, in this week is the commencement of our High Level Segment.
It is essential that we must intensify our efforts and frankly converse
with each other as Ministers, in a spirit commensurate with the level of

our perceived status.

Thank you

