1	
  	
   Remarks by Hon. James Fletcher Minister for Sustainable Development, Energy, Science and Technology Government of Saint Lucia United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) COP19/CMP9 Ministerial High Level Segment Wednesday 20th November, 2013 The National Stadium Warsaw, Poland 
	
  2	
  Painful Memories Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen. Please allow me to extend congratulations on the excellent arrangements in the hosting of this Conference and sincere appreciation to the people of Warsaw for the hospitality they have shown to my delegation.  Last year, when we gathered together in Doha, we expressed sympathy and solidarity with the people of the United States of America, Cuba and Haiti who were still trying to come to terms with the devastating effects of Hurricane Sandy. Today, almost a year later, we gather at another of our annual meetings, only this time to express deepest condolences to the Government and people of the Phillipines who are reeling from the effects of Typhoon Haiyan, which has gone on record as one of the most powerful typhoons ever.  While no single weather event, no matter how severe, can be ascribed solely to climate change, it is clear that global warming resulting from human actions is serving as a trigger for the intensification of such events. Coming from a part of the world where hurricanes frequently leave a trail of death and destruction, it is painful and frightening for us in the Caribbean to face the reality that the worst is yet to come. It is even more depressing when we have to admit that this bleak future is the direct result of the sluggishness of the global response to climate change. Mitigation Ambitions and a New Agreement At this Conference, we are expected to take actions that will meaningfully advance the process of realising a new global climate agreement by 2015. But have we really made any progress or have we, to use a Caribbean phrase, been merely ‘spinning top in mud’?  We can take a little comfort in the fact that collectively we are beginning to propose concrete measures under Workstream 2 of the Durban Platform (ADP), with a view to increasing pre-2020 ambition. There is an even greater need to commit to the implementation of these measures. AOSIS has presented an innovative proposal that promotes Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency as a vehicle to propel us forward. I want to encourage everyone to support this proposal. With respect to Workstream 1, which addresses a new international agreement, it is clear that our success in crafting an effective agreement will determine the quality of life that we and our children will either enjoy or endure on this planet. We all must work together to construct a robust agreement to save our planet. In particular, our developed country partners must break the holding pattern that keeps them circling and skirting the twin issues of ambition and historical responsibility. All across the world, developing countries are embarking on mitigation programmes of one form or another. However, developing country Parties to this Convention will hardly be inspired by Annex 1 countries that are lukewarm in their own mitigation ambitions; that dodge their historical responsibility, even while they seek to impose binding obligations on developing countries; or even more perplexingly, Parties that seek to back-pedal on their existing emission reduction commitments.  	
  3	
   Adaptation Actions are Important We cannot make true progress on climate change if we do not meaningfully undertake adaptation as part of a balanced framework. We must ensure that the mechanisms, modalities and means, financial and otherwise, are in place to effect adaptation in an equitable manner.  Loss and Damage is an Important Issue for SIDS Addressing loss and damage from the adverse effects of climate change, including slow onset impacts, is an issue of fundamental importance to Small Island Developing States (SIDS) like mine, whose communities and economies are trying to cope with losses to which there is little or no capacity to respond. The time is fast approaching for many of us when the impacts of climate change will become so overwhelming that traditional adaptation activities will be insufficient to address loss and damage. For some, that time is already here. For all of these reasons, it is essential that we deliver, here in Warsaw, on the undertaking made at Doha, to arrive at a substantial outcome on Loss and Damage.  Access to Climate Financing is Vital  Colleagues, no matter how diplomatic we may choose to be about it, the availability of finance is fundamental to realising our goal of successfully addressing climate change. It is not only the quantum of money that is important, but predictability and accessibility are equally crucial considerations. It is vital that all relevant financial facilities become fully operational, adequately capitalised and readily accessible by those Parties that need the resources. Many SIDS are carrying the twin burdens of high debt and low growth, and in these asphyxiating circumstances, we need quick and easy access to Climate Financing.  My country, Saint Lucia, has been fortunate to receive assistance from several friendly governments and development partners over the years. However, there is so much more that we need to do in the area of adaptation, such as upgrade our water supply, improve our food security, strengthen our coastal defences, storm-proof our infrastructure, and retool our health sector. We want to thank the Government of the Republic of China (Taiwan) for the strong support it has provided to our mitigation efforts. Given the demonstrated commitment of Taiwan to addressing Climate Change issues, both nationally and internationally, and the need to ensure that all global ‘hands are on deck’ in this monumental battle to save our planet and our future, the Government of Saint Lucia supports the request for the Republic of China (Taiwan) to be granted Observer Status at the UNFCCC.  Conclusion Mr. President, Excellencies, let us make Warsaw, a city that is synonymous with the resilience and heroic efforts of the Polish people in the aftermath of World War II, the place where we strengthened our own resolve and determination to win the war against anthropogenic Climate Change. The Mermaid, which is the symbol of this historic city, can either portend calamitous events such as storms, floods or shipwrecks, or it can be associated with treasures, goodness and friendship. In much the same way, how we leave Warsaw is entirely up to us. We can continue to vacillate and procrastinate while SIDS remain on a perilous path of stronger storms, prolonged droughts and devastated ecosystems or we can take concrete actions and make meaningful 	
  4	
  commitments that will lead to a brighter, promising and more sustainable future. The correct choice should be clear to all of us. I thank you. 