1 
 Statement by the Honourable Mr Akwasi Opong-Fosu Member of 
Parliament and Minister of Environment Science, Technology and 
Innovation of Ghana at the COP20/CMP 10 i n Lima , Peru 
 
President of COP 
Executive Se cretary of the UNFCCC 
Chair s of SBSTA, SBI, G77 and China, Africa G roup and other bodies of the 
Convention 
Ministers and Heads of Delegations 
Other National Delegates 
The Press 
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen 
I congratulate you as President of this Con ference and I thank the Government 
and people of Peru for the warm hospitality that my delegation and I have 
enjoyed since arriving in this your beautiful country. I also thank the Secretariat 
for all preparatory work for this Conference. 
Mr. President, Scientific evidence has now overwhelming ly proved that climate 
change pre sents very serious global risks.  The recent Fifth Assessment R eport 
of the Inter -Governmental Panel o n Climate change (5th IPCC) has made it 
clearer that recent climate changes have h ad widespread impacts on human 
activities and natural systems , and therefore demands urgent global response. 
The global community has realized the seriousness of the threats that climate 
change poses to the survival of humanity and collective steps are bei ng taken to 
address these threats and challenges of keep ing global warming below the 2oC 
target.  
This therefore calls for adequate and timely provision of resources in terms of 
finance, t echnology transfer and capacity building from the develop ed countri es 
to efectively adapt to climate change impacts based on their historical 
responsibilities . Provision of these are inadedqate or delayed.  2 
 Science has established that the African continent is warmer than it was 100 
years ago and most of the warming occu rred during the twentieth century. 
Mr President, Ghana is experiencing the adverse impacts of climate change. 
Recurrent drought and flood events in parts of the country have led to loss of 
lives and property . Relief and rehabilitation efforts have become a major dr ain 
on Ghana’s development efforts . 
 Potential threats and challenges include: shortage of water, food insecurity, 
challenges in generatio n of hydro-electricity , migration , health harzards, among 
others. Therefore the Government of Ghana has und ertake n bold interventions 
to address climate change issues. Among them are the following: 
1. In July this year the government launched Ghana Climate Chnage and 
Environment Policies which are helping to tackle climate change issues in 
a more holistic manne r. 
2. Ghana has developed her National Adaptation Strategy and Low - Carbon 
Emission Roadmap which are enchored in the Climate Policyof Ghana. 
3. On capacity building, Ghana sees it as useful in skills development and 
awarenes s creation , which are crucial f or effective implement our newly 
launched climate change policy with its accompanying strategy and action 
Plan and we call on development partners to support us in this area. 
4. On the issue of REDDplus, Ghana has made enormous strides in the 
implementatio n of its preparatory programme.  
     We have developed an ambitious sub -national emission reduction 
programme known as Ghana Cocoa Forest Landscape REDD + Emission 
Reduction Programme covering 5.9m ha cocoa -forests mosaic landscape 
in the southern hal f of the country which is expected to begin in 2016 and 
end in 2036. Under this programme , and w ith the right support and 
incentives, Ghana expects to generate about 598.2 million tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalents in emission reductions, under this progra mme. 3 
     This programme can be scaled up if additional investment s and incentives 
are provided . We believe th at the Ghana Cocoa Forest Landscape REDD + 
Emission Reduction P rogramme , if adequately resourced would form a 
major part of  Ghana’s contribu tion to the global efforts to close the 
ambition gap before and after 2020. 
Mr. President, our expectation s of the negotiations within the Africa Durban 
Platform for Enhanced Action (ADP) are the following: 
 Set clear, transparent and balance d conclusions towards pre -2020 and 2015 
agreement 
 Encourage further discussions on Intended Nationally Determined 
Contributions (INDCs) , which should not only be centered on mitigation , 
but should also incude adaptat ion, capacity building, finance, technology 
transfer and means of implementation. 
 Call on developed countries to seriously consider the ratification of the 
Second Committment period of the Kyoto Protocol; 
 Consider long -term finance as effective mecahnism for adaptations and 
mitigation actions ; 
 There should be timely and adequate mobilisation of financial reso urces as 
a means of capitalisation of the Green Climate Fund for implementation in 
2015; 
 Ensure c oncrete actions for technology development and to streghten a 
system to coordinate technology transfer ; 
 Encourage implementation of climate change learning and skill s 
development in A frica, which is crucial in order for effective 
implementation of adaptation and mitigation actions , 
 Operationalize the Warsaw Mechanism on Loss and Damage to address 
loss and da mage associated with the adverse effects of climate change from 
extreme and slow onset events. 
 Accelerate progress on negotiations on women and climate change as 
women have been severely affected by climate change in sub -Saharan 
Africa . 4 
 Mr President, in co nclusion developing countries , which have less emission 
profile s, experience high magnitude s of climate change impact s because of our 
high level s of vulnerability. Annex 1 countries are therefore enjoined to take up 
the leadership role taking cognisan ce of the principle s of Common B ut 
Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities as enshrined in the 
Convention . 
Thank You for your Attention  