1
Statement of Indonesia 
At the high level segment of cop-21/ cmp-11
Paris, 8 December 2015
Mr. President, 
First and foremost, allow me to convey my sincere appreciation to the COP 
presidency that has so far been demonstrating a commendable leadership 
and have taken us thus far into the process of achieving a successful 
outcome here in Paris. 
We should continue on the spirit of flexibility, especially to tackle the 
outstanding issues in the remaining days of negotiation. 
Mr. President, 
Now we are at the last leg of the path toward achieving our common 
endeavour, ensuring a political agreement to protect the planet from 
degradation, and keeping the global temperature rise well below 2 degrees 
Celsius to protect the climate system for present and future generations.
Mr. President, 
Indonesia views that Paris agreement must be legally binding, ambitious, 
durable, fair and take into account national priorities and capabilities. In 2
this regard, allow me to raise a few pertinent points:
First, the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and 
respective capabilities and how to reflect the differentiation are the key 
elements of the climate agreement. 
These principles and their operationalization are imperative to ensure 
development planning and actions in developing countries in line with 
poverty alleviation and addressing inequality.
Second, comprehensiveness is the key. Paris agreement needs to be 
inclusive, which should incorporate mitigation, adaptation, loss and 
damage as well as means of implementation.
Third, ensuring that climate finance is scaled up, sustainable and 
predictable to enhance actions for developing countries. Consensus on 
trajectories for ensuring meeting the US $100 billion a year in 2020 and to 
go beyond in the following years.
Mr. President, 
Indonesia is the largest archipelagic state in the world, with 17,000 islands 
that stretch along the equator from the Indian Ocean to the pacific and 
cover a distance of 5,100 kilometers between its farthest points east and 
west. This is comparable to the distance between London to Moscow. 
Indonesia as one of the countries endowed with largest tropical forest, is 3
aware of the forest’s role as the lungs of the world. 
Indonesia’s forest also serves as carbon sinks and provides benefits enjoyed 
by our neighboring countries in the region including those that are not 
endowed with forest. 
For us, protection, conservation and sustainable management of forest is 
one of the top priorities for Indonesia. 250 million Indonesians are relying 
their livelihood and food production from wetlands and forests.  
We recognized that despite serious policy reforms and actions for the past 
decade, our forests are still under serious pressure including the recent 
peatlands and forest fires, which was exacerbated by el Niño. 
Considering the enormity and complexity of the problem, we have done our 
parts on tackling the problem and preventing it to reoccur in the future. 
Our government is committed to sustainable forest management. 
Enhanced law enforcement, strengthened forest governance, and ecosystem 
restoration are some of the measures we have consistently taken at the 
national level.
At the regional level, we are a party to ASEAN agreement on transboundary 
haze pollution which aims to mitigate land and forest fires through 
concerted national efforts and international cooperation. 
Therefore naming and shaming is not a wise way forward. We view that 
international cooperation should be enhanced. 4
Mr. President, 
Despite various challenges and hurdles in coping with the impacts of 
climate change, we have done and will continue doing our best to develop 
constructive policy and cooperation with our partners to address the 
challenges. 
Indonesia stands ready to engage constructively with all parties for the 
conclusion of a successful Paris outcome. 
We should do our utmost to walk the talk, not only talk the talk. 
The future of humanity is at stake, and we must be able to deliver the 
promise right here right now!
 Thank you. 