
 
The Government of Saudi Arabia would like to express its deep gratitude for 
the Government of the Republic of Peru for its great and distinguished efforts in 
preparing for this conference, which will provide an opportunity to facilitate and 
implement decisions pav ing the way for a new agreement to put into a ction the 
obligations set forth in the [UN] Framework Convention on Climate Change, with 
a view to serving humanity. 
Saudi Arabia would like to stress that the new 2015 agreement should focus 
on two major components : international cooperation and Intended Nationa lly 
Determined C ontributions (INDCs) ; and we should build on the principles of the 
Convention , especially the Common but Differentiated Responsibility ; and that 
rather than re -writing or interpreting the Convention, we should build on the 
current institutions, commitments , guidelines, and methodologies and commit to 
the decision made in Durban. 
In this regard, focus should be on the implementation of the Parties ’ 
previous commitments . We should consider how to advance international 
cooperation instead of dictating to the Part ies what to do. We should try to 
incentivize and help countries achieve their goals . The developed nations should 
play the leading role in this respect. Rather than imposing actions , the agreement 3 
 should focus on helping the developing nations and enhancing the six elements we 
agreed upon in Durban. 
Mr. Chairman, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is of the view that specific Nationally -
Determined Contributions (NDCs) should be the core of the new agreement and 
the means through which we can implement the Durban decision calling for 
enhancing our commitments under the Convention. The important question here is 
how can specific NDCs be ambitio us and, at the same time, adhere to t he 
Convention's principles. 
With regard to ambition, and according to the report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, climate change effects and the 
response procedures will slow down economic growth, make poverty eradication 
more difficult a nd further erode food security. This is why it is important to treat 
such issues through adaptation and mitigation . From this standpoint , NDCS will 
play a vital role in creating the appropriate solutions in line with each country's 
priorities and national circumstances. 
We believe that a daptation is the main incentive for achieving sustainable 
development and drive for mitigation . The more we adapt and mitigate today , the 
less the costs we will face in the future when addressing climate change and its 
social effects. We agree with our partners in the industrialized nations that 
mitigation has a basic role to play in addressing climate change. However, we also 
believe that wisdom calls for a similar role for adaptation in order to make sure that 4 
 countries are ready to face up to the negative effects if the international community 
cannot achieve the required ambitions in this respect. 
Based on the above, there are three aspects of ambition that could be thought 
of as contributions aiming to achieve the desired objectives. Phase 1: All countries 
should integrate climate change issues in to their sustainable development. Phase 2: 
Countries that can make more efforts should have their efforts recognized. Phase 3: 
Countries should determine the efforts that lie beyond their capabilities and work 
with the international community to enhance global efforts. 
Mr. Chairman, 
As a developing nation, and in accordance with th e economic diversification 
decision adopted in Doha, Saudi Arabia is taking practical steps towards adaptation 
and economic diversification to address climate change through sustainable 
development programs , and increase t he Kingdom ’s ability to face the g as 
emissions reduction procedures targeting fossil fuel. This will be achieved through 
actions in the following areas: 
1. Increasing energy efficiency. 
2. Utilization of solar and wind energy. 
3. Carbon Capture, Use and Storage (CCUS), and CO2 -Enhanced Oil 
Recovery. 
4. Switching from liquid to gas . 
5. Research and development in the area of clean energy. 
Thank you , Mr. Chairman. 
 