1 
 National Statement of Singapore Delivered by Dr Vivian Balakrishnan 
Minister for the Environment and Water Resources at the UNFCCC 
COP -20 High Level Segment , 9 December 2014, Lima, Peru 
 
 
Mr President, 
 
1. I congratulat e Minister Manuel Pulgar -Vidal on your election as the 
President of this Conference and add Singapore’s appreciation to the government 
and people of Peru for the warm hospitality and meticulous arrangements at this 
Conference. 
 
Moment for action 
 
2. The IPCC’s 5th Assessment Report provides a stark warning of the 
consequences if we do not limit global warming to below 1.5 or 2°C. This COP -
20 is a crucial test of whether we stay on -track or let ourselves get distracted. It is 
incumbent all Parties to be pragmatic and constructive.  We need to affirm the 
concepts of ‘applicable to all’ and ‘universal participation’. While w e cannot 
solve everything here in Lima, it would be negligent of us to delay what we can 
agree upfront. We must try to build momentum to clear a pathway to Paris next 
year. 
 
Way Forward 
 
3. As we work towards a new global agreement, it is important to remember 
that we are not starting from scratch . We are building on the foundation of the 
UNFCCC.  To build a dur able and effective post-2020 regime , we should be 
prepared to give each other some assurance s: 
 
(i) First, that the principles and provisions of the Convention shall be upheld in 
toto. This means that the previously achieved fine balance in the Convention 
should not be wrecked by selective cherry -picking of partisan interests . We 
should simply use the entire Framework Convention , as is, as the durable 
foundation for the new regime ; 
 
(ii) Second , that we recognise each other ’s unique national circumstances and 
respect that we will all put forward our best efforts in our INDCs (Intended 
Nationally Determined Contributions ); and 
 
(iii) Third, that we are all in this together with universal participation . There 
should not be any free-riders in Paris . If a country faces difficulties, help can 
be rendered , but everyone would have to be on board. 2 
 
4. In our view, the se assurances will help drive momentum towards the 
following outcome s in Lima: 
 
(iv) First, a decision on upfront information to provide clarity, transparency and 
understanding of INDCs . But w e should not unwittingly create undue burden 
that would prevent countries from tabling INDCs next year . The idea that it 
is “without prejudice to the legal form” gives us some room to achieve 
balance. 
 
(v) Second , the draft elements of a negotiating text for the 2015 agreement . We 
need to provide assurances that the issues which are important to different 
stakeholders are not ignored . At the same time, those of us making demands 
must be willing to accept a middle path to find consensus . No agreement can 
be built by simply insisting on our original positions. 
 
(vi) Third , the enhancement of pre-2020 ambition . As this is the base for our 
post-2020 goals , we should not avoid doing more before 20 20, but when that 
happens, the 2015 agreement should recognise early actions of countries. 
Otherwise, countries will have perverse incentives to delay action until the 
new agreement is implemented in 2020. 
 
 
Singapore’s Commitment 
 
5. Our collective efforts must be aimed at supporting the multilateral system 
for climate change . The SIDS (Small Island Developing States ), of which 
Singapore is a member , contribute very little to global emission s but we will play 
our part. Singapore generates relatively low levels of carbon emissions per GDP 
dollar in the world, ranking 113th out of 140 countries1. From 2000 to 2010, our 
carbon intensity decreased by 30%, which compares favourably with the global 
average decrease of 0. 12%. We ratified the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto 
Protocol on 23 September 2014 and will submit our INDC i n a timely manner 
before COP -21. Our Biennial Update Report which we submitted this week 
highlights our strategies and progress to meet our pre -2020 pledge . The 
Sustainable Singapore Blueprint 2015 just launched in November 2014 updates 
our plans , especially in areas such as energy efficiency and climate resilience.  We 
are also studying how our economic strategies and industrial structure can best 
respond to, and take advantage of, a low -carbon future as we stabilise our 
emissions over t he long term. 
 
                              
1 Source: IEA Key World Energy Statistics, 2014. 3 
 
Closing 
 
6. Mr President, please allow me to r eiterate Singapore’s appreciation and 
support for Peru’s COP Presidency . It is c ritical that Lima COP -20 be associated 
with trust and good faith in order to prepare for the road to Paris . We c an achieve 
this by delivering on the incremental step s we tasked ourselves in Warsaw. On 
our part, Singapore will do our best to work with the President , the Co -Chairs and 
all Parties to deliver on these objectives. 
 
.  .  .  .  . 
 