 
 
REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
 
 
NAMIBIA ’S STATEMENT AT THE OCCASION OF THE COP20/CMP10,  
LIMA, PERU 
 
   DELIVERED  
BY 
HON. UAHEKUA HERUNGA 
MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your Excellency the President of COP20,  
Your Excellencies Heads of States and Governments here 
present,  
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen 
 
Mr. President 
 
Namibia extends its warm appreciation to the Government 
and people of Peru for the kind hospitality extended to my 
delegation since our arrival in this beautiful city of Lima.  We 
look forward to constructively engage and contribute to the 
discussions  and ensure that COP20 is a resounding success 
with balanced outcomes that would give hope to our 
aspirations in our endeavor to address challenges posed by 
climate change. 
 
Mr. President,  
 
The Twentieth Conference of Parties should pave way to key 
decisions that put climate change action at the fore -front of 
 our developmental processes and giving hope to our future 
generations.  
As we are all aware, the African continent accounts for less 
than 4 per cent of the aggregate global emissions yet it is the 
very same continent that has been identified in the 
Convention as most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of 
climate change. The cont inent like other developing regions 
relies mainly on rain fed agriculture, fisheries, and tourism 
for its economic growth. These sectors are adversely 
affected by the negative impacts of climate change. This 
situation undermines our efforts to achieve our national 
economic development goals and threaten food security in 
our countries.  
 
Distinguished delegates 
 
We believe there is enough of scientific evidence to prove 
that we are on a wrong path to save the planet from global 
warming. We all know what need s to be done to keep global 
average temperature below 2 degrees Celsius. However, our 
mitigation efforts are far less than what is needed by science.  
Namibia is specifically concerned about the lack of political 
will to adequately arrest global warming. We are convinced  
 that developed country Parties need to scale up their level of 
mitigation efforts, if we are to succeed in our efforts.  
 
Mr. President,  
 
 
Namibia notes with deep concern that only two of Annex 1 
Parties have so far ratified the Doha Amend ments which 
operationalise the second commitment period to the Kyoto 
Protocol.  
Of equal concern is the reluctance of developed countries to 
review their joint mitigation efforts and align them to the 
achievement of the global temperature goal of 2 Degrees 
Celsius. We therefore would like to see Annex 1 Parties 
observing and respecting their commitments as provided for 
under the UNFCCC. In particular, the principle of common 
but differentiated responsibility and respective capability 
and that of equity.  
As developing country parties, our mitigation efforts are 
dependent on the support of means of implementation 
including finance, technology transfer and capacity building 
from developed country Parties, who caused global 
warming.  
 
Mr. President,  
 
We call on Annex -1 Parties to ratify the Doha Amendments 
to the Kyoto Protocol and take lead to put down their 
mitigation pledges for the 2015 agreement in Paris.  
While we welcome the financial pledges to the Green Climate 
Fund, we would like also to urge develop ed countries to 
provide a clear schedule on how to mobilize the US$ 100 
billion for the capitalization of the Green Climate Fund 
between now and 2020.  
 
 Mr. President  
 
We need to move forward, and effectively implement the 
UNFCCC’s decisions. Namibia rem ains committed to tackling 
the climate change phenomenon. We believe in swift 
implementation of UNFCCC decisions and this is 
demonstrated by our commitment to be the first non-annex 
1 party to submit the first Biennial Update Report (BUR), in 
line with the decisions taken during COP 16 and 17. This, 
indeed, is a clear testimony that Namibia is committed to 
implement the objectives of the Convention.  
 The findings, from the BUR, showed that Namibia remained 
a net greenhouse gas (GHG) sink in 2010 with the sink 
capacity increased compared to the year 2000 and 1994.  
 
Despite the fact that Namibia is a sink, the Republic of 
Namibia has integrated climate change mitigation in its 
national development agenda and it has over the years 
impl emented activities to further reduce its emission and 
increase its sink. I am happy to inform you that Namibia is 
currently busy formulating its first Nationally Appropriate 
Mitigation Actions (NAMAs), on solar rural electrification. 
 
Mr. President, Distin guished delegates, Ladies and 
gentlemen 
 
Climate change knows no border; it affects all citizens on 
earth. The cost of inaction to, adequately, address climate 
change will be higher than our short -term economic 
benefits. The time to take meaningful and proactive steps 
against the adverse impacts of climate change is now, here in 
Lima.  
 
 
 
 Finally, Mr. President 
 
We believe that Paris will be a defining moment of whether 
or not we can successfully tackle global warming. Paris 
would put up a test whether or not we are truly a nations 
united in common solidarity. Paris would be a test to prove 
whether or not we can save the lives of our future 
generations on this Planet. 
Let us have clear agreed targets before Paris. 
 
I thank you 