1 
 
 Plenary Statement by the Netherlands Climate Ambassador ,   
Mr. Michel Rentenaar , at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP -
20), Lima, Peru, 1 1 December 2014 
 
Mr President , Excellencies , ladies and gentlemen, 
 
 
Climate change is a big threat and a great challenge but it is also a golden 
opportunity to shape our future . And it is ours for the taking. 
By ours I mean: the global community . Because global action is the only 
way to tackle climate change successfully. 
 
We have to build a global economy that leaves the world better than we 
found it instead of worse . 
And yes, we must limit CO2 emissions and adapt to climate change as 
well. 
 My country, The Netherlands, is proud of the goal of the European 
Union to reduc e emissions by at least 40% by the year 2030. 
 The Netherlands is aiming for fully sustainable energy supplies by 
2050 and a climate -neutral world by the end of the 21st centur y. 
 That is why we have made a substantial contribution to the Green 
Climate Fund , to help developing countries move towards resilient, 
sustainable development.  
In our centuries ’ old tradition of working together in combatting the threat 
of water, Dutch companies, cities, governments and other stakeholders 
have joined forces in the Dutch Climate Coalition. We want to work 
together towards a climate -neutral society and show that green growth 
can successfully be the standard for economic prosperity . 
 2 
 
 And we can do this with broad international coalitions as well . 
Some of these coalitions presented themselves and their actions at the 
Climate Summit in New York . 
They give us hope that we wil successfully create a new global climate 
agreement . 
An agreement to which cooperation is essential . 
Cooperation b etween nations, cities and business es. 
Between resilient and vulnerable countries . 
Between rich and poor , between generations , while recognizing the 
important role of women in developing cou ntries. 
Because we are all part of the solution! 
Investing in climate is investing in our future . 
And m ore and more parties see that it also just makes economic sense 
to take action now, to create opportunities for inclusive green growth and 
sustainable development for all of us . If we really agree on this, then a 
new agreement should be flexible , because one size does not fit all, but 
not open -ended . Countries should contribute according to capacity , but 
we will also call each other to account.  
 
 
Mr President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  
 
People from all over the world are expecting us to seize this golden 
opportunity . They expect leadershi p. 
Our generati on can make the difference in tackling climate change. So 
let’s do it. Let’s pave the way to Paris. Let’s act now and let’s act 
together ! 
 
Thank you. 
 3 
 
 
 