 
 1 
1 
Statement of Mr. Ehud Eitam , Ambassador Of Israel to Peru 
On Behalf of the State of Israel 
UNFCCC COP 20 and CMP 10 
Lima, Peru, December 2014 
 
Your Excellency, Minister of Environment of Peru and President 
of COP 20 Mr Manuel Pulgar -Vidal; 
Ms Christiana Figueres, 
Chairperson 
Distinguished Delegates 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
Let me first open by thanking the government and people of 
Peru for organizing this conference. The atmosphere of 
cooperation and compromise reflects the manner and style of 
our hosts. 
 
Israel is one of those countries which will be deeply affected by 
a new Climate Agreement. Israel is currently a non Annex - 1 
country . Yet, we are fully committed to a process whereby all 
member parties of this framework provide Intended Nationally 
Determine d Mitigation Contributions in a transpa rent, 
quantifiable and comparable manner . This should be 
accompanied with sufficient up -front information to enable a 
clear understanding of what each country is doing and how it 
compares to others . 
 
  
 2 
2 
Mr. President, 
We support a consultative assessment which will assist us in 
moving forward to achieving the global goal. 
Every country can and should p lay its part – each according to 
national circ umstances and characteristics. 
Israel is currently w orking on its mitigation contribution which 
we intend to submit in the first half of 2015. 
 
Assessed mitigation actions will not result only in emissions 
reduction but also in energy efficiency and technological 
innovation , Those are the cornerstones of Green Growth and 
part of the positive outcomes of a robust and well-focused 
emissions reduction policy.  
 
A new agreement with clear accounting guidelines, which 
moves away from the previous bifurcated approach, will 
encourage all countries, Including Israel, to become more 
ambitio us in its reduction commitments. 
 
That ambition must not harm economic progress but rather 
harness it to low carbon climate resilient policies consistent 
with our national characteristics. 
  
 3 
3 Israel may be relatively poor in natural resources but blessed in 
human resources, innovation, initiative and creativity. 
 
One of the understandings to come out of this conference is 
the need for countries to share their best practices and 
therefore I will very briefly mention a few of the steps being 
taken in Israel, together with the private sector, towards 
energy and water efficiency : 
 
 Shifting from coal to natural gas in electricity production. 
 Developing a national program on oil alternatives in 
transportation. 
 Promoting solar energy production, from large -scale solar 
power plants to rooftop energy production. 
 Subsidizing the replacement of non -efficient appliances. 
 The imposition of Green building standards, including 
retrofit and urban renewal projects. 
  
 4 
4 Mr. President, 
As a result of being a country on the desert's edge, Israel has 
gained extensive experience over the years in combating 
desertificatio n and adaptation . Israel, with her arid and semi -
arid climate , has been at the forefront of agri cultural , wate r 
technologies and afforestation which provide sustainable 
solutions to the major challenges of climate change 
Israel welcomes cooperation and knowledge sharing 
particularly regarding desalination, waste water management, 
water efficiency, especially in agriculture and early warning 
systems for floods. Israel hopes that its expertise will be 
available to other countries through the CTCN . 
We have reason s for optimism: Major emitters have recently 
made substantial commitments; the Secretary General's 
Summit galvanized political and financial commitment and the 
updated IPCC report has further shattered climate change 
skepticism . 
 
Encouraged by this process in Lima and on the road to Paris we 
have to craft decisions which are nationally appropriate, 
flexible enough to accommodate future developments , 
whether economic or technological . At the same time these 
wise decisions should set in motion a spiral of ever increasing 
ambition and action to which Israel is deeply committed. 
 
 
 
  
 5 
5 Mr. President, 
On a procedural note, regarding the participation of the 
Palestinian delegation in this meeting , I would like to reiterate 
Israel 's position as expressed on November 29th 2012 in the 
context of the adoption of General Assembly resolution 67/19 
as well as in the Security Council on January 23rd 2013. 
 Israel regrets and objects to t he use of the misleading term 
"State of Palestine" and to their decision to presents thei r 
delegation in this meeting under that title. 
 
It is counterproductive to use this term when such a state can 
only be established through direct negotiations between the 
parties. This has been affirmed repeatedly by the international 
community and agreed between the parties. We ask that this 
position will be noted in the official record of the meeting. 
 
Thank you 
  
 
 
 
 
 