Mr. President,
Distinguished colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,

Let me first to associate myself with the statement of the
European Union and its 28 Member States. We remain fully
committed to the international negotiations to tackle climate
change.

Since December 2011 in Durban, 196 Parties have set a collective
course to achieve a durable, binding, global and ambitious
Agreement that will put us on a pathway consistent with the 2
degree objective.

This is an endeavor that will be achieved here in Paris at coP21.
Colleagues,
The Paris agreement is within reach.

Throughout 2015 we have all witnessed an unprecedented
demonstration of political engagement in the process and in
tackling this common challenge.

The numbers are clear. and they are impressive.

To date more than 180 countries accounting for over 97% of
global emissions have put forward their Intended Nationally
Determined Contributions (INDC) in the context of the Paris
Agreement.

Mr. President,

We all know that, as we stand, the level of Ambition for 2030 is
not yet enough to keep us below 2 degrees.

A strong Agreement is required to provide a clear signal that all
countries are committed to decarbonisation and to adopt low-
carbon and carbon resilient options at the national level, in line
with a global goal.

This is a long haul journey. And we need to be able to keep track
of where we are in our collective journey. Hence a global
stocktake process every 5 years is necessary; hence a common,
regular process to strengthen the INDCs is essential.

For Portugal, as for the EU, the success in Paris will be measured
by the extent to which we enshrine in the Agreement the notion
of ratcheting up Ambition.

This means an Agreement that commits ALL Parties, every 5
years to come back simultaneously to submit or update a
mitigation commitment to the international table.

Mr. President,

Portugal has fulfilled its Kyoto target first commitment period
and is on track to deliver on its second commitment period
target for 2020.


In this context we have already established national 
legislation for delivering on our 2030 commitments and, 
early this year, we defined a Strategic Framework for Climate Policy 
that sets the
vision and the objectives for national climate policy, which
includes:

- the National Programme for Climate Change with a
reduction target of 30 to 40% below 2005 levels by 2030
including sectorial targets;

- The 2nd phase of the National Adaptation Strategy, with
special emphasis in knowledge, mainstreaming and
implementation.

Any negative change in international excellence rankings is the
result of cyclical reasons that Portuguese renewed
environmental policies will, immediately, take action against.

Mr. President,

Portugal is fully committed to a deep decarbonization of its
economy. We have already taken great strides in our efforts in
reducing diffuse and industrial pollution and in promoting
renewables, curtailing energy import dependency and reducing
the carbon intensity of our economy.

But we are ready to go further, since our goal is a future without
carbon emissions.

We need to raise ambition in what regards the level of emissions
coming from household, services and transport sectors, what will
demand the adoption of a set of measures in the fields of urban
regeneration, energy efficiency and sustainable mobility,
contributing to a truly integrated policy for cities.

These fiels were all concentrated by the new Portuguesse 
Goverenment in the Environment Ministry. 

Colleagues,

Portugal stands ready to continue to cooperate with its
international partners. We have been working closely with
Portuguese Speaking countries in Africa in implementing projects
related to both mitigation and adaptation, namely during last
year we have contributed to the elaboration of some of our
partners INDCs.

Mr. President,

We are committed to take home a collective Agreement that
puts the entire world on track towards a Long Term Goal.

We need to continuously be able to reaffirm and step up our
common ambition, in light of different national circumstances.

Bearing in mind the level of engagement we have witnessed
throughout this year, I am confident that, together, we can
overcome climate change challenges.

Thank you


