(EU MIZ)
Thank you, Mr. President and distinguished delegates.
First of all, I would like to express my deepest condolences on the lives
taken away and the injured by those horrible terror attacks. In the
meantime, let me express my sincere gratitude to France for the
excellent leadership as the COP21 Presidency. Japan also dedicates all
of our efforts for the successful outcomes in the Paris agreement.

AEGAN ST OF A)
limate change is an urgent threat for human beings and the planet. It
is a sign of the progress in our global efforts that the INDCs covering
more than 95% of the total emission fave submitted.
eQeye™

On the other hand, it is indicated that further mitigation efforts
beyond the INDCs are required for achieving the 2-degree goal. In
terms of global emission reduction, we need to make the framework
applicable to all and effective as much as possible.

The Paris Agreement should enhance our ambition to reduce emissions
over time by setting a global long term goal, a cycle whereby all Parties
revisit and update their mitigation contribution every 5 years, and a
unified but flexible transparency system that requires every country to
report and to be reviewed on the progress of its implementation. We
also support provisions of Global Stocktake in the legal agreement. It
is important that each party utilizes the outcome of the global
stocktake when developing its future actions.

(KAHOB A : BA)
Japan steadily undertakes the emission reduction action in accordance
cet Dik. bux dawnan enel whtakh «wa hava aynreaced in our future vision

TE ee Me Le a eee ee eee

economy and social systems and lifestyles.

We utilize the tax revenue from the “Carbon Tax as Global Warming
Measures,” which we introduced in 2012, to improve energy efficiency
and to promote renewable energy nation-wide. We also attempt to
develop and promote innovative low carbon products and technologies
following LED.

The outcome of those measures is emerging. The total GHG emission
in Japan had been increasing since the time around the Great Easv
Japan Earthquake, until 2014 when it was reduced by 3% from the
previous year. We will proactively promote the global warming
measures furthermore.

In recent years Japan has been hit by extreme whGtrer events such as
powerful typhoons the negative impacts of global warming become
noticeable without distinction between developing countries and
developed ones. Japan has recently developed its national adaptation
plan based on detailed impact assessment, and will implement
concrete measures according to the plan.

(ROBO : Bh)
During the Leaders Event, Prime Minister Abe announced the
“Actions for Cool Earth 2.0 (ACE 2.0)”. In order to support developing
countries which take actions to cope with climate change, Japan will
provide, in 2020, approximately 1.3 trillion Japanese yen of public and
private climate finance, 1.8 times up from the current level, to
developing countries. Also by strengthening the development of
innovative technologies, Japan will strongly uphold global climate

151206 34@-eybh-+3R HIS CISIE

Japan has established the Joint Crediting Mechanism with 16
countries. 50 registered projects are implemented including the
installation of energy conservation facility at a cement factory in
Indonesia and the improvement of transmission efficiency in Vietnam.

We will continue with the steady and concrete international
contributions through the inter-city cooperation and capacity building
programs, by utilizing our leading low-carbon technologies,
experiences and human resources on environmental management.

Taking advantage of our experiences on the Japan’s adaptation
planning, we will contribute to global transformation to climate
resilient society by supporting for the development of adaptation plans
and climate change impact assessments in developing countries. We
are also making efforts to strengthen the knowledge sharing networks,
such as the Global Adaptation Network (GAN) in order to share
information and experiences across the region.

(& Y Ic)
This COP21 is a starting point for the world to collectively tackle with
climate change. I swear to do my best to contribute to the success of
COP21 in order to meet the strong will that leaders of states have
shown.

Thank you.


