I am honoured to address th is High L evel Segment of COP 21 on 
behalf of our Head of State, His Majesty King Mswati III.  I bring 
greetings from His Majesty, Her Majesty the Queen Mother, and the 
entire Swazi Nation, wh o eagerly await the Paris agreement . May I 
also extend the King dom of Swaziland’s sincere condolences for the 
terrorist tragedy suffered recently in Paris . Our special thanks to the 
French government and its people for the excellent facilities and 
hospitality we have received. 
The Kingdom of Swaziland takes note of the efforts of many countries 
in submitting targets or Intended Nationally Determined 
Contributions (iNDCs) as a first step toward s a worthy Paris 
Agreement . We are concerned, however, that these will not be 
sufficient to keep the average global temperatur e increase below 
 2 degrees Celsius . This spell s climate change -related disasters , 
especially for developing countries , most of which, like Swaziland , 
have a tiny carbon footprint but are especially vulnerable . The impact 
of climate change in Swaziland is already alarmingly visible. We have 
one of the driest rainfall seasons in decades, which is having dire 
consequences for food production, availability of potable water and 
the survival of the country’s ecosystems , in particular livestock . 
To be credible , the mitigation targets for the developed countries 
within the Paris Agreement have to be time -bound, quantified and 
measurable. The Kingdom of Swaziland, as a developing country, has 
submitted its iNDC, which is ambitious , aiming to doubl e the share of 
renewable energy in the energy mix , from 16% to 3 2% while 
projecting to completely phase out HFCs by 2030 . This depends 
entirely on resource support being available. Our commitment to 
reduce poverty demands a balanced approach to phasing out use of 
low-cost fossil fuels.  
Swaziland also calls for adaptation that is linked to mitigation 
because , if we do not adapt , survival under the impact of climate 
change remains almost impossible. 
We also urge the developed countries to honour their pledge of 
US$100 billion dollars per year of assistance to developing countries 
by 2020. 
All countries must participate and, indeed, recognise the role being 
played by countries like the Republic of China (Taiwan), that has 
passed its Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Management Act, while 
also giving substantial bilateral support . We hope that it will soon be 
possible for that country to participate in this multilateral process, at 
the least as an official observer. 
Mr. President , 
 We share the world. We must share the commitment to save it. 
Above all we must break out of the live now , pay later syndrome. The 
same world expects a Paris agreement that is ambitious and legally 
binding, dealing equitably while achieving objectives. It must target an 
average global temperature incr ease of not more than 1.5 degrees 
Celsius . A convincing leadership is expected from developed countries 
in accordance with the Convention. The Doha amendments must be 
operationalised. 
Recent surveys show the public in many countries l osing interest in 
climate change action . Or is that losing hope? We must bury the 
disappointment of the Copen hagen saga and create a comprehensive 
and robust commitment that will give rise to a reversal of this 
downward spiral of global climate change . 
I wish for fruitful deliberations , and a credible Paris Agreement that 
represents an honourable legacy to future generations.  
Thank you . 
 
 
 
 