Statement of Hon. Deng Deng Hoc Yai, Minister of Environment and Personal Representative 
of the President of the Republic of South Sudan, at the High -Level Segment of the UN Climate 
Change Conference, Paris, France, 8th December 2015 
 
Mr President, 
Your Ex cellencies, 
Distinguished Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
On behalf of my President , the government and the people of South Sudan , I want to express our 
condolences to the families of the victims of the savage terror attacks. We stand in solidarity with 
France.  
 
Mr President, climate change is one of the gravest challenges faci ng Africa and the world today. The 
Paris Agreement can only be a real deal and fit for purpose if it meet s five bottom -line expectat ions of 
the Parties: 
 
1. The Agreement should necessarily be universal , gender -sensitive and legally binding . 
 
2. As a legal instrument for implementation of the Convention , the Agreement should be in 
accordance with the principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular the principles of 
equity, common but di fferentiated responsibilit ies and resp ective national capabilities . 
 
3. The Agreement should demons trate our collective mitigation ambition . In accordance with the 
science, the Agreement should keep the global average temp eratures well below 1.5 degree Celsi us 
above pre -industrial levels . This will ensure that Planet Earth is on the way to recovery. Any less 
ambitious target will only worsen the situation in developing countries causing more poverty, more 
conflicts, more food insecurity, more hunger, more water scarcity , more job losses, more youth 
unemp loyment, more migration , more destr uction of lives and livelihoods and more misery. 
 
4. The Agreement should provide for a global goal for adaptation that enhances the implementation 
of adaptation obligations, inc luding s upport for developing countries . The Agreement should also 
provide for parity between mitigation and adaptation.  
 
5. The Agreement should provide for an enhanced means of implementation to ensures that the 
developed countries - 
 
(a) Provide climate f inance , which is additional , predictable and sustainable , to the developing 
countries ; 
 
(b) Support training and capacity building for the benefit of the deve loping countries ; 
 
(c) Support techn ology t ransf er to the developing countries; and 
 
(d) Suppor t the International Mechanism for loss and damage associa ted with climate change 
impacts . 
 
Mr President , let us rise to the challenge. L et us tackle climate change - HERE and NOW. Let us leave 
our children and the next generations NOTHING – zero carbon dioxide emissions , zero poverty , and 
zero biodiversity loss ! Thank you . 