COP 20/CMP 10 , Lima, Peru - High -Level Segment 
Statement by Iceland 
 
President, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Iceland supports the momentum we feel here in Lima towards reaching a new global climate 
agreement next year. The agreement should have mitigation action at its core, and provide a 
framework for all countries towa rds a greener way to develop their economies and societies. 
Increased carbon emissions affect the atmos phere and land ecos ystems. The effect on the oceans 
will also be profound . Ocean acidification is a growing threat, not least for countries that depend 
on fisheries and a healthy marine ecosystem. Like our our host country, Iceland has an economy 
reliant on rich fisheries. F or the health of the oceans, as well as the planet, we need to chart a low -
carbon future. 
Two sectors matter most in that respect. Firstly, i n energy, w e need to move from fossil fuels 
towards renewable sources . With almost 100% of stationary energy produ ction in Iceland comin g 
from renewables, Iceland aims to focus on mobile sources, m ainly transport and fisheries . Success 
has been made in reducing emissions from these sectors in recent years, including through a 
carbon tax and other economic instruments . We want to do better, and the long term goal will be 
to phase out fossil fuel use in transport and fisheries. Iceland will continue its efforts to support 
capacity building and development of renewables globally , particularly in geothermal. 
Secondly, l and use is a crucial sector in climate change mitigation, as well as adaptation . Globally, 
we should look at synergies between the UNFCCC and the UN Convention to Combat 
Desertification , and opportunites for land rehabilitation actions . At home , Iceland is committed to 
increase its efforts on carbon removal from the atmosphere by afforestation and revegetation. 
Iceland is also develop ing a programme on wetland conservation and reclamation, in cooperation 
with stakeholders, which would benefit biodiversity a nd the climate. 
Gender equality is an important matter , which will help us succeed in climate mitigation and 
adaptation, and is a vital element of t he new agr emeent. The two -year work program to promote 
gender balance is an important step which we welcome, but clearly we have opportunites to do 
still better. 
Iceland will contribute to the Green Climate Fund. 
Iceland is taking part in a joint commitment with the EU and its Member States for the second 
commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, as Iceland takes part in a European -wide market for 
carbon credits. Iceland is exploring ways to chart a low -carbon road beyond 2020 as part of a 
global agreement - by action at home, participation in regional carbon markets and international 
cooperation. 
Thank you, 