On behalf of the People and of the Government of Brazil, I would like to
express our deepest appreciation to the People and Government of Peru
for hosting the 2014 Conference of Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is a great honor and a
privilege to take part in a COP in an Amazonian country.
The fact that we meet in Peru, in a developing country, in an Amazonian
country that shares this amazingly rich and varied biome both in human
and natural resources reinforces the urgency of crafting an
international consensus to give a strong and affirmative response to the
global climate crisis.
In Warsaw, Parties approved a solid framework for results based
payments for REDD+ activities and a Mechanism to address loss and
damages due to the adverse impacts of climate change. In Lima, we
must pave the way for an equitable, ambitious and effective legally
binding agreement under the Convention, applicable to all Parties, to
be adopted in Paris, next year.
Brazil remains fully committed to the global efforts to combat climate
change, elaborating and conducting ambitious initiatives to reduce
emissions from its own territory and acting jointly with the global
community in order to secure a successful outcome of ongoing
international negotiations.
Over the last few years, we have undertaken efforts to fulfill our
voluntary emission reduction actions, announced in 2009, in
Copenhagen. Nine nationwide plans are being implemented covering
key sectors of our economy, including low carbon agriculture, energy,
industry and public health. Financing mechanisms are in place to
promote innovation, dissemination of knowledge and new technologies.
Last week, the Amazon deforestation rate for the period 2013/2014 was
announced: a reduction of 18% was reported in relation to the previous
period. In the last four years, sustained efforts to combat deforestation
in the Amazon have allowed us to achieve the four lowest annual
deforestation rates in twenty-five years of forest monitoring in my
country.
Brazil is poised to fulfill its NAMAs and to cut emissions by 2020
between 36.1% and 38.9% in relation to BAU. Brazil has set in Law
ambitious voluntary goals such as reducing by 80% illegal deforestation
in the Amazon by 2020, a significantly higher target than what was
included in a recent voluntary declaration on forests. The country is
also promoting the integration of farming, cattle ranching and forests
and is responsible for the largest tropical forest protected areas
program in the world, ARPA. The Brazilian Government committed to
creating 60 million hectares of protected areas in the Amazon Region by
2020, in the context of the successful conclusion of ARPA’s third
replenishment, earlier this year. We expect nevertheless to achieve this
target which covers exclusively natural protected areas, by the end of
next year. In addition, Brazil is provisioned with high quality knowledge
and action capabilities on climate risk management including effective
early-warning systems and sector-wide adaptation strategies.
My country envisions the challenges associated with climate change as a
comprehensive effort that must involve all sectors of society and of the
Government. From now on, we must focus our efforts towards
implementation.
Mr President,
Not only have deforestation rates been significantly reduced by 82%
over the last ten years, but recent data indicates that we are also
verifying substantial forest recovery rates. That means that Brazil has
ceased to emit 650 million tons of carbon dioxide annually, a significant
and voluntary contribution towards the global reduction of emissions.
Our satellite monitoring systems indicate that 23% of historically
deforested areas in the Brazilian Amazon Region are under
regeneration. These areas under regeneration represent two and a half
times the total area which was deforested from 2008 to 2012.
Our ambition and determination to actively combat climate change goes
beyond our borders. Brazil is cooperating with its Amazon neighbours in
order to strengthen national capacities to monitor and combat
deforestation and is working towards building similar South-South
cooperation initiatives with the Congo Basin countries.
Mr. President,
Honourable Ministers,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The new agreement under the Convention must be universal, ambitious
and legally binding, while respecting the principles and provisions
enshrined in the UNFCCC. In order to achieve the 2°C goal, the
agreement must be robust, covering mitigation, adaptation and means
of implementation, to the level deemed necessary to support
developing countries achieving their full potential.
Differentiation between developed and developing countries is
absolutely essential to ensure the global level of ambition required to
keep temperature increase below an agreed threshold. Brazil has
brought to Lima innovative proposals, with the intent of building
consensus. While enhanced ambition is expected from all Parties, we
must ensure that previous commitments are safeguarded and that
developed countries are taking the lead in the global effort against
climate change, while allowing developing countries to gradually
assume further obligations, in accordance with their development
circumstances.
The “concentric differentiation” approach proposed by Brazil aims to
ensure universal participation and promotes a continuous and sustained
global effort towards increasing ambition and holding the global
average temperature bellow 2 C, while fully respecting the principles,
provisions, structure and achievements of the Convention.
"Self-differentiation" is not an option: it would neither be fair nor
reasonable to expect developing countries to assume further
obligations, while at the same time reducing the level of ambition
expected from developed countries. Brazil has been doing its fair share
and is ready and willing to contribute even more to the global effort
against climate change. We call upon developed countries to live up to
their responsibilities before the international community and to the
legitimate aspirations of global civil society.
Furthermore, we must overcome the logic that preventing climate
change negatively impacts the economy. Actions to reduce emissions
and to foster adaptation must be considered a source of wealth, as they
attract investments and warrant new initiatives of sustainable
development. As the primary international forum to address climate
change, the Convention should develop the ways and means to
recognise and promote the social value of mitigation and adaptation
actions. Developing countries' mitigation and adaptation efforts, in
particular, must be fully recognised and rewarded if we are to enhance
action under the Convention.
Brazil proposes , under work stream 2, the recognition of the social and
economic value intrinsic to mitigation activities. To translate the results
of early and additional action into units of convertible financial value
that could be used to back further sustainable development investments
thus establishing a positive forward looking process. This is another
concrete proposal that we hope may contribute to closing the ambition
gap before 2020 and to support further ambition beyond that date.
We must continue to encourage, at all times, the highest possible level
of engagement and ambition in these negotiations by all Parties. It is
only by doing so that we will be able to welcome the new phase in the
climate change regime, that effectively tackles this crucial global
challenge.
Thank you