Mister/Madam President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me at the outset thank the Republic of France for hosting this 
important Climate Summit, COP 21 , here in Paris. Our thoughts are with 
the victims of the terrible terrorist attacks that hit Paris on November 13th 
and with their families. Let me assure the people of France of our full 
solidarity. 
 
Mister /Madam President, 
The world is at a crossroads: This week we can break new ground in 
international climate policy. Important elements of our Agreement are still 
contested, but I am confident that we can bridge our differen cies in the 
coming days. Our planet needs progress in climate action, we have no 
planet B. 
My country fully shares the position of the European Union as outlined by 
Minister Dieschbourg, and I don’t need to repeat them here. Let me 
highlight some issues of particular importance to Austria. I am pleased to 
present to you my ideas for an energy transition in Europe and 
worldwide. 
A modern and responsible climate policy has to focus on 3 elements: 
Firstly energy savings, secondly the use of renewable energies and 
thirdly energy efficiency.  
To achieve the global 2 degrees Celsius target we need to dramatically 
reduce the overall energy consumption. The transition to renewable 
forms of energy must be significantly accelerated. 
 
The European Union has set a greenhouse gas reduction target of at 
least 40 percent by 2030, compared to 1990. To achieve this ambitious 
target, we need a European Energy Transition Protocol, a common 
European legal framework for Energy Transition which Austria will 
promote actively. We must adapt our state aid schemes, increase 
research and development. We must promote renewable energy, energy 
efficiency and energy conservation. 
 
Equally important is the global phase -out of the use of coal.  Austria has 
almost completed this phase -out. And by 2030 we aim to a 100 percent 
renewable electricity generation. 
But it is not only coal: We need to act decisively and jointly against direct 
and indirect subsidies for fossil fuels. There is absolutely no justification 
for the fact that still much more public funding is used for exploring, 
drilling and use of oil, coal and gas. Instead, we should direct these 
funds towards the development of clean and renewable energy sources. 
 
We will not be able to meet our ambitious climate and energy goals 
without substantial price signals. Austria is among those count ries which 
support the World Bank initiative „Putting a Price on Carbon”. As the 
emissions trading scheme has so far not fully succeeded in giving such 4 
 signals, I propose to consider establishing a harmonized approach on 
CO2 levies . 
 
Mister /Madam President, 
Finally, with regard to climate finance, Austria aims to provide at least 
half a billion euros for mitigation and adaptation between 2015 and 2020 
in addition to our current pledge to the Green Climate Fund. 
 
Action on climate change cannot work without active involvement of our 
regions. Let us act together to making this key gathering the go which 
our global climate needs! 
 
Thank you! 