Just a few weeks have passed since Paris suffered a
number of vicious terror attacks. Those attacks were on
the concept of liberty and the freedom of the common
people - values that the French Revolution donated to our
culture.

I would like to convey my personal condolences and those
of the people of Israel.

I joined the summit last week and heard many speeches
so I guess there is nothing new to say about the climate
challenge — we know what needs to be done. That's why I
will focus on Israel's plan.

Some data.
Our population is around 8 million
Our GDP per capita is 38.000 U.S. dollars
Our GDP growth is almost 3% per year.
Our share in the greenhouse gas emission is 0.2%
Nothing to write home about.

The target that the government of Israel decided on is
24% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to
a Business As Usual scenario.

Our plan is to achieve the target by 5 main steps :
1. Increasing energy efficiency by 17%
2. Scaling up from to 2% to 17% renewable energy
3. Minimizing the use of coal
4. Transforming 20% of our transportation to public
transportation.
5. Adopting disruptive technologies.

I would like to elaborate the last topic.

Ijoined politics last year after 20 years in the
telecommunication business.
I experienced the dramatic changes that technology
brought about.

I saw that nobody could predict the techological development
and I saw how very clever strategies collapsed under
disruptive technologies.
That's why I'm very optimistic regarding our ability to meet
our targets.

Israel is often referred to as the startup nation. We have
more than 350 clean tech companies and last year we
were ranked number 1 out of 40 in clean tech
technologies innovation.

If you are not optimistic regarding the world target just
close your eyes and imagine our world in 2030 :

1. The electricity networks will be much more efficient due
to smart grid concepts.

2. Most of us will produce the energy that we will
consume.

3. Every factory will use co generation.

4. Car companies will make more electric.cars than
gasoline engine cars. Part of them will use automotive
skills.

5. Public transportation will be much more smart and
efficient

Will a world with these trends ans capabilities meet the
2 degreet target?

I'm sure it can.

The 2 degree goal is within our hands.

Thank You

