Distinguished President , 
 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
Negative climate trends, such as temperature rising and frequency increase 
in extreme natural phenomena: floods, heat waves, or forest fires have 
unfortunately set the stage for inflicting consequences, especially for the 
most vulnerable and financially unfortunate social strata.    
 
In this sense, efforts to integrate climate change issues into all sectors of 
policy making, develop ment of e fficient policies that enable 
implementation of measures that reduce risks and promote resiliency 
remain at the heart of our attention and action.  
 
In this context, combining individual efforts with collective planning and 
implementation is of crucial importance and co-benefitting. 
  
As part of UNFCCC obligations, Albania has submitted the 1st and 2nd 
National Communication documents, and the 3rd National Communication 
is in its final preparation stage, calling for increased cooperation among all 
sectors: energy, agriculture, forestry, waste management, transport, etc.  
 
Two NAMA-s (Nation al Appropriate Mitigation Action), supported by 
UNDP are under development, in the final stage, and expected to be 
submitted to the UNFCCC very soon: 
 
 Implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan in the 
residential and commercial sector) and 
 Replacing fossil fuels with non-hazardous waste in cement industry in 
Albania. 
 
In the frame of EU integration process, Albania: a candidate country since 
June 2014, can count a series of environmental landmarks, especially in 
transposition of European legislation into the national one. 
 
The National Plan for European Integration 2014 – 2020, sets clear targets 
for transposition of EU Climate & Energy package. This will in turn 
consolidate the grounds for Albania’s sustainable development path. 
 
In t he frame of United Nations Climate Change Convention, Albania 
associated itself with EU positions, and has committed to: 
 Define the National Intended Determine Contribution for emission 
reduction until 2020;  
 Transpose EU Energy & Climate Change package in to national 
legislation 
 Increase renewable energy resources to 35 %, until 2020; 
 Increase energy efficiency to 9 % until 2018. 
 
The Albanian Ministry of Environment, in cooperation with close partners, 
such as: EU, World Bank, GIZ, UNDP, UNEP, etc. , is currently 
implementing a number of climate change -related projects, which seek to: 
 promote green economy 
 promote solar energy, as a powerful renewable energy resource in 
Albania, 
 strengthening national capacities to develop low -carbon strategies, in 
line with EU membership requirements; 
 establishing a network of information exchange, methodologies, 
experiences and best national and regional practices 
 
Energy remains a strategic sector for any economy; 90 % of national energy 
production comes from hydropowe r plants, yet Albania intends to increase 
energy production from hydro resources, through increasing adequate 
investments in the sector. 
 
However, studies show that a 20 % decrease in rainfall until 2050 will lead 
to a 15 % reduction of energy production from bigger hydropower plants, 
and 20 % from smaller ones. In view of this, reliance on hydropower energy 
only remains a challenge for us.   
 
The National Energy Strategy highlights the need to diversify and increase 
energy production, through upgrading national assets, using new 
technologies, increasing energy efficiency, promoting eco-building and 
other energy renewable sources: solar, wind, biomass, etc. 

Concluding, as a prospective EU country and non-annex I country, we are 
much interested in outcome of Lima negotiations, specifically on drafting 
and adoption by 2015 of a global climate agreement, applying to all the 
countries, and the identification of the ways to raise the ambition of global 
greenhouse gas emission cuts between now and the end of t his decade. 
Dear participants, 
 
I would like to reiterate Albania's commitments to address climate change 
issues and offer its contribution towards, carbon emissions reductions. 
 
Thank you for your attention! 
 
 