Check Against Delivery 
REMARKS BY H.E. JANE J. CHIGIYAL 
 PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE TO THE UNITED NATIONS 
OF THE FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 
Before the 
Twentieth Conference of the Parties to the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
And the 
Tenth Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
Lima, Peru, December 11, 2014 
 
Mr. President, Excellencies, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentleman , 
I wish to extend Micronesia’s sympathies to the people and the government of the Philippines for 
the loss of lives and property caused by Typhoon Hagupit. 
My delegation thanks the government and the people of Peru for their warm hospitality. I 
associate my statement with the statement made by Nauru on behalf of the Alliance of Small 
Island States. I commend all the Parties for their hard work and the forward progres s made so far 
at COP20. However, at this COP, as at others before , I feel that the pace and progress of these 
negotiations fails to meet the exigency of the climate crisis and to keep us on track to meet 
agreed goals. 
They also fail to correspond what the science suggests is necessary, particularly as captured in 
the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC , which highlights that human activity is clearly 
impact ing our climate , leading to sea -level ri se and link ed to extreme weather events , among 
other dangerous threats to lives and livelihoods in my country and worldwide. 
These impacts an d emerging threats consistently undermine our sustainable development efforts 
and threaten not only our people’s livelihood s, but also our territorial integrity and our 
sovereignty . Adaptation measures are already necessary , but they will not be sufficient . 
Small Island Developing States contribute very little t o climate change but are nevertheless 
taking leadership roles and address ing it at the national, regional and international levels. Many 
of our key national mitigation actions and commitments are reflected in the Majuro Declaration 
for Climate Leadership. We will continue to refine these goals through our Intended Nation ally 
Determined Contributions, but these must receive s ufficient support for both development and 
implementation. 
 
 2 
 In the end, small island States will not be able to stop global climate change through our 
domestic actions alone. T he major polluters , espe cially those who are most responsible for 
climate change, have the moral obligation to do much more, to take the lead and to raise their 
ambition now. If major emitters do this, then we still have the potential to significantly narrow 
the pre -2020 ambition gap under Work stream 2 of the Durban Platform . 
Mr. President, 
As we come to the end of the International Year of the SIDS, we hope to leave Lima on a high 
note. 
Pledges to the Green Climate Fund have now passed the $10 billi on threshold, which could mark 
a significant step forward, but these ple dges must be fulfilled without delay and they must be 
accessible to SIDS. 
Other potentially encouraging news is the progress toward a decision on the initial two-year 
work plan for the Warsaw Mecha nism on Loss and Damage. We call on our partners to deliver 
the large scale financing that it will take to support a credible mechanism . Loss and damage 
should also be included as an element in the new agreement. 
An ambitious and legally -binding climate ch ange treaty in Paris is still possible. We support an 
initial commitment period of five years under this agreement . 
We also fully support inclusion of gender equality in the text of the new agreement. F ull and 
equal participation of women in all climate actions and decision making processes should be a 
guiding principle for all . 
Mr. President, 
Not only can we still attain an ambitious agreement, but we can also prevent some of the worst 
impacts of climate change in the near term , but only if we take fast and ambitious actions now, 
such as using the Montreal Protocol to reduce the powerful greenhouse gases HFCs.  
Deep and immediate cuts in carbon dioxide emissions are paramount for long -term climate 
stabilization , but HFC emissions are hundred s to thousands more times powerful than CO 2, and 
HFCs are the fastest growing greenhouse gas es in many countries. 
For this reason , six years ago, Micronesia introduce d a proposal to amend the Montreal Protocol 
to phase down the consumption and production of HFC s. We were guided by scientific and 
technical studies, and we were inspired by our prior experiences within the Montreal Protocol 
and our trust in its institutional and financial expertise. 
In the years since then, phasing down HFCs using the expertise and institutions of the Montreal 
Protocol has gained near -universal support. Both the 2012 Rio+20 outcome document and the 
2014 Samoa Pathway call for the phase down of the production and consumption of HFCs , and 
the P arties to the Montreal Protocol have decided to convene two HFC Management Workshops, 
the second of which will be held in Bangkok in April 2015 . 3 
 By agreeing to phase down HFCs under the Montreal Protocol next year , we could nearly 
eliminate one of the prim ary greenhouse gases and create critical momentum toward a successful 
outcome in Paris . We must all take every opportunity to cooperate in every forum throughout 
2015 and not reserve our ambiti ous actions and announcements for COP21 itself. COP21 starts 
now. 
Mr. President, 
As a final note, t he UN Secretary -General shared with us the importance of the Paris agreement 
as one o f the milestones in the po st-2015 developmen t process. We also note his plan for a high -
level summit on climate change in June . The sustainable development discussions are 
complementary and rein forcing, and can only help pave a smooth road to Paris. 
Thank you. 
 