
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, Fellow Minsters, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
 
During the Climate Summit , in September of this year , Leaders highlighted the grim 
impacts of climate change, and the urgent need to take bold actions to tackle it. The 
global nature of climate change demands all countries to seriously join hands to 
achieve a comprehensive climate cha nge agreement in 2015. 
 
I am truly encouraged with the development of the current negotiation in Lima. I am 
convinced that Lima will produce decisions that are crucial for our future path. We 
should also keep up the spirit for further discussions on the el ements of 2015 
Agreement. I sincerely hope that the agreement will be concluded in Paris by 2015. 
This is because such a n ambitious agreement would send a clear signal for action to 
lawmakers, businesspeople , and the public. 
 
The 2015 climate agre ement is a commitment to ensure a better life for future 
generations. The agreement will lead to low carbon development that intends to 
avoid our generation and the next from the adverse effects of climate change. 
 
The agreement should cover important elements suc h as global target s that are 
based on science, legally binding and applicable to all, involving every possible 
actions in a balanced manner in accordance with the principle of equity, common but 
differentiated responsibilities and respected capabilities , ensuring participation of 
multi stakeholder s, providing room for ambitio us adjustment s, as well as ensuring 
transparency to gain trust among Parties. 
 
In this regard, I would like to share with you Indonesia’s views on the 2015 C limate 
Change Agreement : 
a. First, the Agreement should outline ambitious yet achievable commitments. It 
should allow flexibility for fair contributions, which is firmly anchored on the 
principles of equity, common but differentiated responsibilities and respective 
capabilities. 
b. Second, charting the 2015 agreement does not mean we are reinventing the 
wheel . Instead, the agreement should be a continuation and enhancement of 
the existing regime under the Convention . It is essential therefore that 
decision s in Lima must ensure that pre -2020 commitments and actions will be 
delivered by all Parties, before post -2020 enhanced actions is agreed upon. 
c. Third, the agreement should provide room for adjustment of Parties’ ambition 
according to their respective national circumstances. Furthermore, i t is 
important to have periodical reviews to observe the ambition and assess 
challenges in its implementation . 
d. Fourth, the ambitious pre -2020 actions will give best practices and lessons 
learned for post -2020 actions. Realizing the pre -2020 ambitions wil l build trust 
among Parties by meeting each country’s commitment. Hence, Indonesia 
views that it is important for Annex I countries to seriously implement and 
scale up their commitments, including commitments on means of 
implementation, in particular finan cing as well as in technology development 
and transfer . 
e. Fifth, the 2015 Agreement could promote a coherent approach on climate 
action to co-benefit mitigation and adaptation measures, which will have a 
direct impact towards development and the prosperity of the people. As the 
world’s largest archipelagic country , our people live mostly in the coastal areas 
and depend on the marine sector for their li velihood. Indonesia therefore 
stresses the importance of mainstreaming maritime issues in the mit igation 
and adaptation actions, as this is closely associated inter alia, with food and 
energy security. 
f. Sixth , it is also important for us to ensure that the Agreement be equitable, in 
particular through the strengthening of global partnership and cooperation. 

 As part of their commitments, all countries should make their best efforts in reducing 
their emissions. On its part, Indonesia will do its utmost to contribute to the reduction 
of greenhouse gases emission in 2020 and beyond.  
 
In this respect, before closing my remarks, Mr. President, allow me to particularly 
highlight Indonesia’s policy on the energy sector under the new administration. 
Indonesia views energy as a very important issue, which requires special attention , 
given the very close association with growth and economic security . Global energy 
sources are currently dependent on fossil fuels . Indonesia, under the new 
administration , is designing breakthrough strategies to increase oil production by 
improving energy infrastructure and governance of the oil and gas sector to be more 
efficient and effective . In addition to that, Indonesia is committed to gradually 
reducing the use of fossil energy , leaning towards a greater role for renewable 
energy and low carbon energy technologies . For that reason, Indone sia has been 
reducing oil subsidies and will provide affordable and cleaner energy to enable 
people to achieve the national sustainable energy path. 
 
It is also worth noting that as the world 's largest archipelagic state , Indonesia is rich 
in renewable ene rgy sources , such as solar power, ocean renewable energy (ORE) , 
hydropower, and geothermal potential . We aim to optimize the use of clean and 
renewable energy sources as well as open up new economic opportunities . Thus, 
strengthening and intensifying inter national cooperation , to further develop the 
potential of those energy sources, is an important priority .  
 
I thank you. 
 
 