 
 
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country Statement on Climate Change COP21 
Delivered by H.E.Dr. Thet Thet Zin, Deputy Union Minister 
Ministry of Environmental Conservation and Forestry of Myanmar 
 
 
at the Joint High -Level Segment 21th session of the Conference of the Parties to UNFCCC 
(COP 21) and 11th session of the Conference of the Parties serving of the meeting of Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP11), on 7 -8th Dec, 2015, Le Bourget, Paris, Fr ance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 December 2015 
 
 
 Country Statement by 
H.E. Dr. ThetThet Zin , Deputy Minister 
Ministry of Environmental Conservation and Forestry of Myanmar 
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar 
At Higher Level Segment of the COP21 on 7-8thDec 
30 Nov -11 Dec, 2015, Paris, Fr ance 
 
Excellency Head s of State and Head s of Governments 
President of COP 21/CMP 11 , 
Honorable Ministers and Head s of Delegations , 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
1. At the outset, t he Myanmar delegation would like to express its deepest 
appreciation and congratulation s to the Government and people of France for 
your warm hospitality and excellent arrangements during this histor ic event in 
beautiful Paris . The people of Myanmar express our heartfelt condolences 
following the despicable acts of terror last month. 
2. Myanmar acknowledges the work of the IPCC in its Fifth Assessment Report, 
and is deeply aware that climate change is a major global challenge . The 
evidence is clear that climate change is causing serious impacts today, 
requiring urgent and immediate action by all. To tackle this challenge , we are 
here in Paris to reach a milestone comprehensive Global Climate Change 
Agreement.  This new agreement should state 1.5 'C as its temperature goal , to 
save our generations to come . 3. Myanmar, especially in this historic time of democratization and socio -
economic development , supports the universal adoption of ambitious goals, 
targets and commitments to guide a sustainable future . 
4. That is why Myanmar considers climate change the single most important 
challenge to its sustainable development . Myanmar has every intention to make 
its contribution in the global alliance of countries to mitigate climate change; as 
well as adapting at the national and local level s to increase our climate 
resilience. Failing to do that will hinder the prospects for the social and 
economic development of our population of over 50 million people. 
5. That is why we believe that t he Paris agreement must address the core elements 
mandated by the Durban decision in a comprehensive and balanced manner : 
mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer , capacity 
building , and tra nsparency of action and support , as well as loss and damage 
and response measures, in accordance with all principles and pro visions of the 
Convention, in particular the principle of equity and common but differentiated 
responsibilities . 
Mr. President, Excellenc ies, Distinguished Delegates, 
6. For several years in a row, Myanmar has been ranked second in the world 
among the countr ies most exposed and vulnerable to the negative effects of a 
changing climate. We are too aware of the devastation that extreme weather 
events can bring. In 2008, Tropical Cyclone Nargis caused the loss of 138,000 
lives and damage of USD 4 billion. This ye ar 2015, in July and August, severe 
floods and landslides of unprecedented proportions damaged millions of acres 
of agricultural land and affected over 25 million people. We are still recovering 
from these two events, yet know we face ever -increasing storm s, cyclones, 
floods and droughts that will seriously hamper our socio -economic development. Therefore we reiterate that including loss and damage in this 
agreement is critically important to the vulnerable countries. It must address 
the needs and challeng es faced by developing countries emerging from extreme 
and slow -onset events.  
7. Nationally, a s part of the political reforms that began in 2011 , the Government 
of Myanmar is putting in place the necessary legal, procedural and governance 
instruments – and building the institutional, technical and human capacities – 
needed to achieve socially, economically and environmentally sustainable 
development. We have accelerated greatly the mainstreaming of climate change 
into sectoral and development agendas. Enviro nment , includ ing climate change , 
is one of the seven strategies of the National Comprehensive Development Plan 
(2011 -30). 
8. Very importantly, Myanmar is now developing its National Climate Change 
Strategy and associated action plans to guide the mainstreamin g of climate 
change in sectoral, state and regional development planning and policy 
formulation. The goal we have set for ourselves is that of achieving climate 
resilient, low -carbon, resource efficient and inclusive development as a 
contribution to sustainable development with the strategic objectives of: 
building climate resilience of vulnerable communities; enhancing low -carbon, 
resource -efficient and inclusive development; enhancing sectoral capacities; 
and building multi -stakeholder partnerships.  
9. This roadmap provides us with even further clarity on the challenges ahead. To 
be successful in these areas, we need to reinforce all institutional capacities, 
policies, financial frameworks, access to technology, awareness and capacity – 
including data, research and innovation – and the partnership of all stakeholders 
in society . 
  Mr. President, Excellenc ies, Distinguished Delegates, 
10. More precisely we are committed, on the one hand, to play our part in the 
global effort of mitigating emissions, now and in the future. To do so, I am 
proud of the INDC we have submitted. However, as a Least Develop ed 
Country, our responsibility is also to continue developing socially and 
economically with a reasonable pace ; our growth will likely entail an increase 
of GHG emissions. Therefore, we strongly adhere to the principle of common 
but differentiated responsibi lities under the C onvention in the new agreement . 
11. Our INDC focuses on maintaining the c arbon -sink status of Myanmar through 
protecting our forest s. With the largest expanse of tropical forest in mainland 
South East Asia, Myanmar is a net greenhouse gas (GH G) sink, and so already 
makes a significant contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change. A 
REDD+ mechanism ha s significant potential to reduce emissions , adapt to 
climate change , and enhance forest carbon stock through sustainable forest 
management. We thus urge inclusion of a REDD+ Mechanism in the 
agreement and a Paris COP decision on sustainable financing through the GCF 
and other sources for REDD+ implementation in developing countries.  
12. As Myanmar develops its economy , our INDC shows our plan to produce 
electricity from a consid erable proportion of renewable e nergy in the national 
energy mix. The Government of Myanmar aims to achieve its Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) of poverty alleviation through increasing the 
electrification rate from 34 % by 2015 -16 to 45% by 2020 -21, 60% by 2025 -26, 
and 100% by 2030. 
13. To implement our INDC, Myanmar has initiated a wide range of polic ies and 
programme s including the National Forestry Ma ster Plan (2001 -2031), National Energy Policy (2014) and draft National Energy Efficiency and 
Conservation Policy. 
Mr. President, Excellenc ies, Distinguished Delegates, 
14. We also recognize the need to more consistent ly inclu de civil society 
perspectives , empower groups at risk of the short and long -term impacts of 
climate change, and integrat e gender considerations into climate change policy 
design. This effort is ultimately a mean s to alleviate suffering and enabl ing 
sustainable development of the poor, b oth in rural and urban areas. 
15. While o ur INDC shows our desire to contribute to global mitigation of GHGs, 
Myanmar wishes to state clearly and firmly that adapting to the negative effects 
of climate change and building climate resilience remain our absolute priority . 
We are currently engaged in a number of sectoral actio ns under our NAPA 
while we are also working hard on developing our long term National 
Adaptation Plan (NAP). 
16. Myanmar believes that transparency in the new agreement is also very 
important . We intend to develop a robust MRV system. 
17. But our base of technical, human and financial capacities is low. We are 
concerned that we will not be able to adapt or create adequate MRV systems in 
time. We therefore endorse language in the new agree ment that recognizes the 
importance of capacity building, technology development and transfer, and 
finance to particularly vulnerable developing countries like Myanmar , 
especially for implementing our National ly Determined Contribution s. 
18. Finance is a crucial and key element of the Paris outcome. Developing countries 
require a substantial scaling up of finance from the 2020 base level of US$100 
billion by developed countries to GCF. 19. Myanmar welcomes the most recent pledges to the Least Deve loping Country 
Fund ( LDCF), which has remained under -resourced for a long time. Equally, 
adequat e resources for Adaptation Fund are urgently required. 
 
Mr. President, Excellenc ies, Distinguished Delegates, 
20. But increasing pre -2020 ambition is equally important. It builds trust and 
creates the foundation for the post -2020 agreement. We reaffirm that the Kyoto 
Protocol is the legally binding basis for addressing pre -2020 mitigation 
ambition.  
21. For Myanmar, the larger question remains on how to achieve both socio -
economic growth and emission control and reduction needed to sustainabl y 
grow. We know that Myanmar’s economic development is likely to increase 
demand for services and resources, and the emissions associated with them. We 
believe that socio -economic growth can be obtained while managing our 
resources wisely to ensure sustaina ble growth for generations to come. 
22. For our own people and all the world’s citizens, we come to Paris want ing to 
celebrate the milestone of a new, legally binding Global Climate Change 
Agreement that reflects our common but differentiate d responsibilitie s in 
accordance with the principles and provisions of the C onvention. We stand 
ready to do our part. 
 
Thank you 