THE STATEMENT BY H.E. MS. SANJAASUREN OYUN, MP AND MINISTER FOR 
ENVIRONMENT AND GREEN DEVELOPMENT OF MONGOLIA AT THE HIGH LEVEL 
SEGMENT OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
LIMA , PERU, 9 DECEMBER, 2014 
 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellences,  
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me begin by extending our warm congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your 
well-deserved election , and pledge full support of my delegation in discharge of your 
important duties to move forward the cli mate change negotiation process. I believe that the 
Parties to the UNFCCC and its Kyoto protocol could make great progress towards the 2015 
agreement under your able leadership. 
 
I also would like to thank the Government and people of Peru and the historic city of 
Lima hosting this conference , and excellent arrangements and warm hospitalities extended 
to the participants of the conference.  
Mr. President, 
Scientists in their Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC have confirmed with greater 
confidence that the global climate change is unequivocal and unprecedented over decades 
to millennia. Also they have war ned that these changes in our climate would be accelerated 
in the future and called for urgent action. Thus, it is time for action to prevent the 
unavoidable consequences of climate change. No time for more conservations and 
exchange of opinions. The world looks for our action. With less than a year left to conclude 
the Paris deal in 2015 for a new agreement under the UNFCCC, the Lima conference is a 
very important milestone. H ere in Lima we have to make substantial progress on 
elaboration of the elements for a drafting negotiating text which is essential to the adoption 
of the universal agreement in Paris. The provisions of the new agreement should f ocus on 
enhanced action related to all core elements: adaptation, mitigati on, finance, technology , 
capacity building and transparency . 
We also should look forward to identify ing the information that Parties will provide 
when submitting forward their inten ded nationally determined contributions in relation to the 
2015 agreement. Intended Nationally Determined Contributions are the willingness and 
efforts of both the developed and developing countries to fight against climate change. 
Developed country Parties shall show their strong leadership not only in mitigation of 
greenhouse gas emissions, but also in provision of finance, technology transfer and 
capacity building support. Developing countries have urgent needs for these supports for 
their domestic preparations of their INDCs and for submitting information thereon, as well 
as for the implementation of their enhanced action both before and after 2020. 
 Mr. President, 
 
 For many developing countries, wh ich are usually very vulnerable to climate change, 
it is crucial to be clearly informed about the level of sustainable financial support that will be 
provided by developed country Parties and financial institutions to developing country 
Parties to allow for enhanced implementation of the Convention. Therefore, as a 
representative of those who are most vulnerable to climate change, Mongolia is paying 
greater attention to the global challenges and problems associated with climate change and 
try to take appropri ate actions at both national and global level. Recently, Mongolia has 
made a pledge of a small amount of money to the Green Climate Fund (GCF) at the Berlin 
Pledging meeting. Even though this is almost negligible, but we intended to call the big or 
small, the reach or poor countries to make their initial pledges to the GCF. Urgent full 
operationalization of the Fund and the significant capitalization of the Convention's financial 
mechanism, with new, additional, adequate, sustained, accessible, and predicta ble funding 
are essential to accelerate the real and action -oriented measures against climate change in 
the developing world. 
 
Mr President, 
 The 2015 agreement should ensure that adaptation is as important as mitigation for 
those most vulnerable. Delaying adaptation and mitigation measures will increase the 
challenges, and will be the more difficult, intractable and more costly in the further actions. 
We call for especial attention to be given to National Adaptation Plans , Technology needs 
assessments for adaptation and mitigation, and the recommendations and potential 
projects and measures identified in these planning and assessment documents must 
become a reality. We reaffirm the importance of giving full consideration t o the concrete 
actions that meet the specific needs and concerns of developing country Parties. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
 
In conclusion, I would like to express our sincere support to your leadership, Mr. President, 
and we are confident that this COP will be gu ided by your wisdom to secure the desired 
outcome here in Lima at COP20/CMP10 as an important and milestone and prelude to the 
successful completion of our work in Paris next year. 
 
 
Thank you for your kind attention 
 