 
1 
EIG Opening Statement for COP21 and CMP11 
 
Paris, France, 1 December 2015 
 
 
 
Thank you, Mr. President 
I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the 
Environmental Integrity Group, comprising Liechtenstein, 
Mexico, Monaco, the Republic of Korea and Switzerland. 
Let me first thank the government and the people of France as 
well as the authoriti es and the people of Paris for hosting this 
Conference of the Parties . We also express our full soli darity to 
the French people in grief after the Paris terror attacks . Let me 
assure you that the French presidency has our full support in 
guiding us through this two weeks in order to deliver an 
outcome that sends a strong signal to the outside world . 
The last months proved us that we are capable of addressing 
global climate change collectively : over 90% of the Parties to 
the Convention submitted their INDC s. This is unprecedented 
and a crucial step into the right direction. However, we should 
not forget that the hard work is yet to be done. The 
implementation of th ese and future commitments demands an 
increase of national and international effort s in order t o reach 
the below 2°C -target. For this to be reached effectively, we 
need a legally -binding global framework that enables robust 
action by all Parties . 
Mr. President, we did not come to Paris to adopt just some kind 
of an agreement. We came to Paris to ado pt an agreement that 
is worth the time and energy spent. We came to Paris to adopt 
an ambitious , robust , dynamic and durable new agreement 
2 applicable to all that will set us on the pathway towards low -
carbon and resilien t societies and economies. 
In order to adopt a durable and dynamic agreement, we need to 
take a pragmatic and flexible approach to differentiation 
whereby all Parities have obligations in accordance with their 
responsibilities, capabilities and national circumstances. 
To ensure the robustness of the agreement we need common 
rules and a unified transparency system that allows for a global 
aggregation of emissions without overburdening countries with 
limited capacities. Furthermore, we need a mechanism to 
continuously increase our ambi tion over time in all areas of the 
agreement.  
We recognize the crucial role of the mobilization of climate 
finance and support to developing countries, in particular the 
poorest and most vulnerable, to implement the agreement. Over 
time all finance flows should promote and be consistent with the 
urgently needed transformation to low -carbon and climate -
resilient economies. 
The journey needs to continue after Paris : besides important 
elements to be decided here in Paris , we should set up a robust 
work program for the operationalization of the Paris agreement 
to make it fit for purpose from 2020.Furthermore, we need to 
continue to strengthen the international regime up to 2020. 
Mr. President, the EIG came to Paris well pr epared and ready 
to work hard with all P arties and the French presidency during 
these two weeks to reach such an ambitious global agreement. 
Thank you Mr. President 
 