1 
 High Level Segment 
 
Statement by Mr. Sajjad Ahmad , Director General (Environment & 
Climate Change ), Climate Change Division, Government of Pakistan 
at the 20th Conference of the Parties (COP -20) and 9th Conference 
of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP -10), Lima, Peru, 9-11 December 2014 
Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen , 
Let me first congratulate you for assuming the Presidency. 
I would like to convey our deep appreciation for your government’s 
tremendous efforts while preparing for this conference. 
I also take this opportunity to thank the people of Peru for their 
warm feeling and welcome. 
Mr. President, 
We are at the crossroads and Climate C hange is the defining issue of 
our t imes.  
It not only threatens sustained economic growth and development 
but intensifies existing political, social, economic and security 
challenges . 
It poses additional stress on our resources and serv es as 
impediment to the whole spectrum of socio -economic development . 
Climate Change challenges demand enhanced cooperation among 
the in ternational community through collaborative efforts. 
Developing countries , however , face greater challenge s of climate 
risks, impacts and protracting poverty simultaneously. 
Climate actions should be within the context of our efforts to 
eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development. 2 
 Our agreement , therefore, on climate change in 2015 has to be both 
ambitious a nd achievable. The developed countries must take lead.  
Mr. President , 
Pakistan’s contribution to global warming is very little. 
 
Yet, Pakistan is placed in the category of extremely vulnerable 
countries by a host of scientific studies and climate change indices. 
We are threatened in multiple ways. Climate induced d rought, 
desertification, glacial -melt, sea level rise and recurrent floods, are 
just to name a few . 
Pakistan’ s 5000 glaciers are in retreat and likely to cause water 
stress in Pakistan. 
The economic losses suffered during the floods of 2010 and 2011 
surpassed US$ 15 billion.  
The floods again hit us this year causing tremendous damages 
to life and property . 
The recurrence of such climate induced disasters decelerates our 
efforts to reduce poverty, enhance food security, improve health 
care, and improve access to energy. 
Mr. President , 
Nationally, we have developed a comprehensive policy and strategy 
to address Climate Change. 
Given our extreme vulnerability to Climate Change adaptation 
remains our essential priority. 
We have also adopted a comprehensive approach on disaster risk 
reduction and management.  3 
 Our mitigation efforts cover energy as a high priority followed by 
transport, town planning, agriculture etc. We are working to change 
the energy mix on the basis of our meager resources to reduce 
carbon emissions. 
Mr. President , 
Tackling Climate Change requires corresponding means of 
implementation in the developing countries. The magnitude of 
Climate Finance required in this regard, is enormous. 
According to various estimates, Pakistan alone will require an 
additional 10 billion US$ annually to adapt to climate change 
impacts. Our mitigation requirements rang e from 18 billion US$ in 
2014 /15 to 45 billion US$ in 2050. 
Enhanced action by developing countries requires enhanced and 
predictab le means of implementation . 
Securing and channeling such levels of Climate Finance in the 
developing world is a major challenge.  
The Financial Mechanism of the Convention and its operating 
entities should be the main vehicle for delivery of support. 
The operationalization of Green Climate Fund is a step in right 
direction. The pledges for initial capitalization of Green Climate 
Fund are encouraging. These are, however, still far from the 
commitment of 100 billion dollars a year.  
The financial mechani sm of the Convention should be made more 
robust, with new and additional, scaled up and predictable finance. 
The developed countries must provide a clear roadmap for public 
climate financing with specific targets, timelines, and sources. 
Mr. President, 4 
 We support working towards an inclusive, robust and participatory 
regime. 
The 2015 Agreement on Climate Change is within reach. It will only 
be possible if we reaffirm and develop an undivided focus on 
strengthening the Climate Change Convention at Lima . 
The new agreement has to be compressive and be guided by the 
established principles of the Climate Convention particularly of 
Common But Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective 
Capabilities.  
It should holistically cover all aspects including ; mitigatio n, 
adaptation , finance and technology transfer , in a balanced manner . 
The agreement must ensure that mitigation actions by developing 
countries are supported and enabled by finance, technology and 
capacity building. 
It remains critical that developed coun tries demonstrate urgency in 
raising ambitions to close the emission gap . 
An arrangement for ensuring transparency of support provided to 
the developing countries for climate actions is extremely important. 
Mr. President, 
We all need to work together to reach agreement on climate change. 
Lima is an important milestone and an historic opportunity. 
Pakistan, on its part, is ready to make its contribution. 
I thank you. 