 Mr. President, 
 
On behalf of the government and people of the Commonwealth of Dominica , and 
on my own behalf, [ in my capacity as Chair of the 32 -member Small Island 
Developing States (SIDS) Sustainable Energy and Climate Resilience 
Organisation - SIDS DOCK -] please accept our condolences on the horrific 
brutality that descended on France on November 13, when terror struck , taking 
the lives of 130 people and wounding numerous others.  
 
Mr. President, as the world descends on France for these climate talks, our 
message to our determined hosts – the government and people of France – is, 
we, the leaders of the world are here, we are here with you and for you , and we 
say in one global voice, vive la France! For m ake no mistake, terrorism and 
climate change are two of the greatest threats confronting humanity, and the 
Commonwealth of Dominica shares the agony and pain of that fateful day, and 
stands in solidarity with the F rench Republic in combating the horror of 
terrorism. 
 
The Commonwealth of Dominica, a 760 square kilometre small island developing 
state in the Caribbean with over 72,000 people, can be counted among those 
states that experienced the devastating effects of climate change in 2015. The 
Commonwealth of Dominica humbly and gratefully stands before this auspicious 
audience in acknowledging the heartfelt support received as a result of the 
devastating effects of Tropical Storm Erika in August 2015. This single event 
represents the grave and deadly impacts of climate change and its overwhelming 
power to derail development, and what can be done and has been done to 
recover and make our country more resilient . 
 
The human devastation was heart -breaking and overwhelm ing. Eleven (11) 
people were confirmed dead, twenty two (22) missing, five hundred and 
seventy -four (574) homeless, and seven hundred and thirteen (713) evacuated. 
Approximately seven thousand two hundred and twenty -nine (7,229) were 
impacted by the event in disaster declared areas. 
 
On August 27, Erika passed over island unleashing extraordinary rainfall 
estimated at as much as 17 inches in the mountainous interior over a nine -hour 
period. Owing to the location of the island within the North Atlantic Hurri cane 
Belt, its vulnerability, exposure, sensitivity and adaptive capacity, the heavy 
rainfall resulted in intense and rapid flooding and land slippages. 
 
Consequently, the island suffered severe infrastructural damage, primarily 
related to transportation, housing and agriculture.  Based upon an initial 
assessment of impacts to each affected sector, the resulting total damage and 
loss was 483 million United States dollars or $ 1.3 billion dollars in the local 
currency. This is equivalent to 90 per cent of Dominica’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 
So severe was the damage that two communities had to be evacuated on a 
permanent basis and one community remains isolated from the rest of the 
country due to the destruction of a crossing over a 300 -foot gorge on one side , 
and numerous landslides on the other ; the area remain s unstable. 
 
With the generous assistance of friendly states and supportive international 
organisations, our recovery has been ongoing and we have pledged to rebuild 
our country and to do so in a more deliberate, integrated and resilient manner 
and applying the latest technologies available.  
 
In pursuit of this objective, the Commonwealth of Dominica is pressing for the 
establishment of a Loss and Damage Fund. We commenced the process of 
mob ilising resources for this Fund by convening a donors meeting in Dominica , 
two weeks ago. We are deeply encouraged by the pledges made and are hopeful 
that the conclusions of COP 21 will build on these.  Mr. President, the 
establishment of the Loss and Dam age Fund for SIDS could represent a final 
resolution at COP 21. 
 
The effects of climate change are jeopardising the existence of many small low 
lying island developing states, and destroying lives, livelihoods and economies of 
others, is emerging as a perm anent reality. It’s not just rising temperatu res that 
will devastate life, but rising sea levels too.  
 
The projection is for a 1 -2 metre rise in sea levels by the end of the 21st century. 
This would mean approximately 13 hundred square kilometres of land area 
being lost in the Caribbean – that is equal to the land area of Barbados, Antigua & 
Barbuda, St. Vincent & the Grenadines and Anguilla combined. A rise in sea levels 
is projected to displace 110,000 people; damage 149 tourist resorts; five power 
plant s; 21 CARICOM airports; and inundate lands surrounding 35 Caribbean 
ports; among other consequences. 
 
Mr. President, like previous UNFCCC Conference of Parties (COP) meetings, many 
have come here with the hope of “ a final resolution .” But for small island s, it 
was at the COP 15 in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 2009, that our leaders formally 
recognised that we had crossed the “red line,” of 1.5 degrees Celsius and 
concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of 350 parts per million 
(ppm), and that there w as no turning back, and that we would have to take 
control of our own destiny and find creative and innovative ways to help adapt 
to the impacts of climate change – and so, Mr. President, we formed our own 
organisation – SIDS DOCK - to do that, and in doing so, that was a giant step for 
small islands toward a final resolution . 
 
The Commonwealth of Dominica firmly believes that the time for pointing 
fingers and play ing the blame game on the causes of climate change has p assed . 
Small islands have forged new and genuine partnerships that are leading the way 
by example, in moving away from business as usual . In climate change, our world 
faces a challenge that is potentially damaging to all of humanity and collectively, 
it is our duty and responsibility to bring all the resources at our disposal to 
address the problems.  In this regard, we are grateful and appreciative of the support from our friends 
from Denmark, Japan, Austria, Italy, Norway and Sweden for their strong and 
early support in helping us to establish and develop SIDS DOCK. 
 
The Commonwealth of Dominica is cognisant that the technology exists to help 
solve the climate change dilemma. Small island leaders have demonstrated bold 
and decisive leadership that has convince d key parties and stakeholders that it is 
in our best long - term interest to create low - carbon economies, benefit from less 
pollution, and thereby create a new economic sector that reduces poverty and 
increases employment . 
 
SIDS, while small in size have , are custodians of the vast ocean , where huge 
quantities of carbon dioxide are sequeste red annually , significantly more that the 
amount of greenhouse gas ( GHG ) we emit. We, therefore, have a responsibility 
to made best effort s to help better manage our ocean resources to maximize GHG 
sequestration and food security.  That is why we call upon our partners and the 
international community to strongly support the accelerated deployment of 
potentially game changing technologies that tap vast resources of renewable 
energy, such as the ocean . 
 
Dominica is a small place with big ambitions. We have adopted and are currently 
implementing a proactive stance in reducing carbon emissions as close to zero as 
possible . Our energy policy seeks to make us less depend ent on fossil fuels and 
more so on renewables. Currently, 30 per cent of our energy generation is from 
hydro and incentives are in place for encouraging the use of renewables. We 
have made significant investments in developing the geothermal potential on our 
island and expect in the short -term, to have a geothermal plant built.  
 
Due to the repeated onslaught of climate change, our respective governments 
and our kind and generous partners and donors have , year after year, invested in 
recovery and rebuilding efforts in small islands and vulnerable countries. Now 
more than ever, we need an international mechanism to insure vulnerable 
communities against loss and damage when mitigation and adaptation efforts 
fail. This is not something new being put forward . The issue of insurance is 
embedded within the UNFCCC and has been an important element of the 
negotiations for small islands since the 1990s.  
 
Mr. President, it is in this light that the Government and People of the 
Commonwealth of Dominica re-emphasises the need and urgently call upon our 
developed country partners to increase the provision of finance, transfer and 
deployment of technology and capacity building efforts in a more a predictable 
manner that reflects strong public -private partnerships. Enhanced action and 
international cooperation on adaptation is urgently required to enable and 
support the implementation of adaptation actions aimed at reducing 
vulnerability and building resilience in small islands and other vulnerable 
countries. The establishment of a Loss and Damage Fund can and should be a 
final resolution of the COP 21.  
 The Commonwealth of Dominica is ready to fully engage with all Parties with the 
view of finalizing a successful agreement here in Paris. 