STATEMENT BY HON. AMARA M. KONNEH, MINISTER OF FINANCE
AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING & HEAD OF LIBERIAN DELEGATION

At the twenty first session of the Conference of the Parties and the eleventh Session of the
Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol

Paris, France

December 7, 2015
H.E. President of the Conference of Parties
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Government and People of Liberia.

First, the Liberian Government wishes to register its appreciations and take this
opportunity to thank the Government and the people of France for their warm
hospitality and the incredible efforts they have made to ensure the success of
COP21 despite the recent terror attack. Liberia joins you in solidarity during your
period of national mourning.

Mr. President, Liberia aligns itself with the statements of the African Group,
LDCs and G77+China.

Page 1 of 4

Mr. President,

Liberia recognized the severity of the impacts of global warming and at this
historic moment where all Parties will take a significant step forward in the fight
against climate change. We must remain focused on what was agreed to in Durban.

Mr. President, it is an open secret that Climate change has been recognized as the
most current issue affecting human development. Its impacts are causing loss of
lives, food insecurity, destruction of infrastructures and ecosystem services. In a
nutshell, climate change is a major challenge to Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs).

Like many Least Developed Countries, Liberia continues to experience severe
consequences of climate change such as the perennial flooding in our urban and
peri-urban communities, coastal erosion, pest infestation, increase incidence of
health issues such as the Ebola epidemic. In short, climate change continues to
impact Liberia’s Socio-economic development.

In response to Liberia’s vulnerability to climate change, we are presently executing
three major adaptation projects, namely Coastal Defense, Climate Agriculture and
Early Warning System Projects.

To further enhance Government’s intervention, Liberia has completed and
submitted its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions. Liberia's INDC
provides the way forward for my government in addressing climate change in the
areas of mitigation and adaptation. Liberia’s INDC demonstrates the government’s
intent to address the impacts of climate change, but will require adequate and
predictable finance for implementation.

Liberia wants a new legally binding agreement out of Paris that will be endorsed
by all parties. A new global agreement will assure the people of the world that we
are serious in ensuring our sustainable development activities.

Adaptation is key for developing countries including mine. Therefore, Liberia calls
for the implementation of the National Adaptation Process to address medium and
long term adaptation activities.

Mr. President,

REDD+ plays a critical role in ensuring the mitigation of climate change. Any
delay in the disbursement of finance to support REDD+ has the potential for
countries to revert to full scale commercial logging activities in order to respond to
their national development activities in a timely manner. Therefore, Liberia calls
for sustainable, predictable finance for rainforest countries that are involved in the
process. This will ensure that these countries meet up with timely development
deliverables at the national levels.

On the issue of finance, Liberia extends her profound thanks and appreciation to
those parties that have contributed to the replenishment of the Least Developed
Countries Fund and urge other parties that are in the position to also make their
contributions.

Technology as you know is a major hindrance in addressing the impacts of climate
change. Therefore, there is a need to ensure the timely deployment and diffusion of
technology for the LDCS and developing countries without bottle necks.

Capacity building has been identified as a major issue that needs to be considered
in the new agreement. With this, Liberia calls for the establishment of a Capacity
building Mechanism.

Liberia remains committed to decision 23/CP.18 and other COP decisions on
gender.

We call for further action to speed up the implementation of Lima Work
Programme on Gender. Adaptation and mitigation efforts under the new

ics ie ite

equality, equal access to decision making and benefit sharing. Issues around
capacity, technology development and. transfer and finance should also include a
gender- sensitive approach/gender — responsive climate approach

Finally, Mr. President, I want to take this time to thank you for the leadership you
have demonstrated thus far. We look forward to a successful out come from Paris.

I thank you all.

