
Mr. President 
Excellencies 
Distinguished Delegates 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Mauritius, I would like to express our 
sincere thanks to the Government of the Republic of P eru for its warm hospitality and the 
excellent arrangements for the organization of this high level meeting on Climate Change 
in this historic and vibra nt city, Lima . 
 
At the very outset, I would like to express the full support of Mauritius to the statements 
made earlier on behalf of the AOSIS, the Africa group and the Group of 77 and China. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
At this critical juncture , we are starting these negotiations with the somber knowledge 
that progress is too slow . The year 2014 is likely to be the hottest year on record and 
emissions continue to rise. Vulnerable countries around the globe continue to suffer 
disastrous impacts of climate change. Facts cannot be denied. We must act with urgency , 
and w e trust that this COP in Lima will come up with a positive and constructive 
outcome prior to the much awaited Climate Change Summit in Paris next year . 
 
Mauritius, as a highly vulnerable SIDS is already facing devastating effects of extreme 
weather events and climate variabilities . The flash flood s of last year in the Capital city 
caused 11 deaths with over USD 25 million worth of material damages. This year, 
Mauritius is facing a serious water deficit. W e reemphasize that the climate challenges 
ahead for Mauritius are huge, especially when considering the facts that water supply by 
2030 may not be sufficient to satisfy projected demand, agricultural production may 
decline by as much as 30% and that severa l beaches which are so important for our 
tourism industry may slowly disappear, thus severely undermining one of our major 
economic pillars depriving the economy value worth over USD 50 million by 2050. 
 
Our livelihoods are at stake. It wou ld be insensitiv e to further delay the long overdue 
responses. 
 
Mauritius wishes to take this opportunity to underscore the importance of the 2013 -2015 
Review. The IPCC Fifth Assessment Report reveals (with high to very high level of 
confi dence ) serious risks to ecosyste ms and livelihoods as well as to sustainable 
development for the most vulnerable countries such as SIDS and LDCs at levels of 
warming of 2°C . In fact, m oderate to high risks are identified at 1.5 degree Celsius with 
very stark implications for the cost of adaptation and permanent loss and damage. We are 
therefore emphasizing that the outcome of the Review should be seriously taken into  
 account in setting the level of ambition for the long term global goal in the 2015 
agreement. 
 
Constructive efforts are required by all parties to achieve the overall objective of limiting 
global warming to well below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Our survival is at stake. 
 
Mr President, 
 
The latest IPCC report also confirms that the GHG emissions are still on the rise . If we 
are to save the world from the impending climate crisis, the commitments by developed 
countries to deliver emission reductions consistent with science and historical 
responsibility must be scaled up . This is of paramount importance . We therefore, urge 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol to ratify the Doha Amendment and to fulfil their respective 
GHG reduction commitments. It is more than urgent that developed countries 
demonstrate leadership and solidarity with the most vulnerable countries. 
 
In response to mitigation , the Government of Mauritius has made sustainable 
development as its long term strategy. Several activities aiming at greening of our 
economy have been undertaken with our limited means under the Prime Minister’s 
“Maurice Ile Durable” i nitiative . Mauritius has set the following target s: 
 
(i) achieving 35 % of renewable energy production by 2025 ; 
(ii) 10% energy efficiency from the non-residential and public sector buildings by 
2020 ; and 
(iii) 35% reduction in consumption of energy in the transport sector by 2025 . 
 
Necessary legislation s have recently been passed on energy efficiency and on climate 
resilient and energy efficient buildings. We will be shortly having a Climate Change Bill 
for Mauritius. Additionally, a series of other mitigation projects are also being 
undertaken. The Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development is working on a 
Low Carbon Development Strategy and Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions with 
a view to mainstream low emission development pathways in the institutional framework 
and into core development plans, policy, and strategies for Mauritius. 
 
Mr President, 
 
With the increasing and more pronounced impacts of climate change, the adaptation 
needs for SIDs , Africa and least develop ed countries are urgent. Mauritius welcomes the 
contributions to the initial capitalization of the Green Climate Fund. We are pleased to 
see that the GCF is finally becoming a reality. However, we are concerned that too many 
and too stringent conditions are likely to be attached with the pledges . We want to stress 
that financial issues are central to the success of this COP . Long Term Finance and 
Guidance to the Green Climate Fund are of particular importance to us. We must see 
significant progress here toward providing more predictability and clarity on how 
developed country Parties will fulfill their pledge of mobilizing $100 billion USD per 
year by 2020. This is essential to restore trust in this process and give developing 3 
 countries the assurance that support to enhance our adaptation and mitigation ac tions will 
be available when we need it. 
 
The GCF must be in a position to start approving projects and programmes by mid -2015 
and immediately make funding available thereafter. A priority must be fast -tracking the 
accreditation of entities required to fac ilitate direct access to resources to ensure swift 
implementation on the ground. 
 
The Government of Mauritius has developed its National Climate Change Adaptation 
Policy Framework, which has set the basis of its major actions to build resilience against 
climate change . It covers the climate sensitive sectors , namely: agriculture, fisheries, 
coastal ecosystems and water. We have assessed our priority needs and come up with a 
climate investment programme for adaptation and disaster risk reduction amounting t o 
some USD 300 million for the coming 10 years. More importantly , a Climate Change 
Information Centre has been set up to disseminate information on climate change and 
serve as a digital platform to enhance the skills and knowledge of local stakeholders. We 
are presently working towards upgrading the Centre into a regional CC observatory with 
the collaboration of the Indian Ocean Commission Member States.  
 
We seize this opportunity to thank all our partners including the EU, the Government of 
Japan , the GEF and others who have made it possible for us to come this far. However, 
we need to steadily pursue this goal further. We still have a very long way to go to make 
Mauritius climate resilient. 
 
To conclude, Mr. President, I wish to emphasize that Mauritius needs the technical and 
financial support of the international community and development partners to pursue our 
adaptation and mitigation goals . 
 
I thank you for your kind attention. 
 