Statement at the COP/CMP in Lima  
delivered by H.E Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional 
Development Mr Kaspars Gerhards 
 
 
Good afternoon Mr President! Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen! 
 
First of all , let me thank the Peruvian presidency for hosting this fundamentally 
important Climate Change Conference . Thank you for showing a way forward! 
Thank you for inspiring! 
 
If we want to achieve our common goal, we need to speed up and we need to 
focus. We ne ed to concentrate on what is really important! We need to ensure 
climate change mitigation meanwhile not forgetting about adaptation. UN 
Climate Summit showed that there is a wide support for stepping up and 
enlarging ambition s. Let’s build on this positive momentum and communicate 
our intended nationally determined contributions by the first quarter of 2015! 
 
In October, twenty eight Member States of the European Union reached a 
historic al agreement – we agreed on a legally binding, economy -wide r eduction 
target of at least 40 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared 
to 1990 . For some this might seem nothing special, but for us that created an 
unprecedentedly difficult internal discussions. Similarly as many countries here 
in Lima , Latvia was very concerned about its possible commitments and their 
impact upon economic growth. However, we did agree to this target . Why? 
Because we believe that everyone can participate! Everyone can find measures 
that suits and are both useful and ben eficial.  
 
We started with a Green Investment Scheme. A t the time of deep economic 
recession projects co -funded by the Green Investment Scheme not only ensured greenhouse gas emissions reductions but also advanced our economic recovery 
and growth. Now we are developing economy -wide policies. We are thinking 
both at national and regional level. Especially, with regard to adaptation 
measures as they have to be tai lored to local circumstances. 
 
Mr. President, I am pleased to inform you that today Latvia ’s government 
decided on a pledge to the Green Climate Fund. I am confident that the Green 
Climate Fund shall ensure smart investments and deliver principal 
transformations. Need s are always greater that financial capabilities. It is, 
therefore, essentially important to combine investments with sustainable 
government policies . 
 
In order to meet the challenge of climate change and by the end of 2015 agree 
on a new agreement , I strongly believe that Lima need s to lay ground for it . 
Moreover, for the agreement to be feasible, it has to be legally binding, durable 
and applicable to all P arties. 
 
Mr President, Latvia is ready to take an active role in enhancing cooperation and 
mutual understanding among countries for successful work in the run -up to 
Paris . I hope others will do so as well . 
 
Thank you and good luck to all of us ! 