20th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 20) to the UNFCCC 
and 10th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyot o protocol (CMP 10) 
(Lima, Peru, 1-12 December 2014) 
 
Statement of the Minister of Env ironment of LITHUANIA 
 
Honorable Ministers, 
Mr. Chairma n, 
Distinguished delegates , 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Let me start with the reiteration of the importance of Lima conference and 
appreciation of the hospitality of Peru. 
Today I would like to express my full support to COP President and his team 
in their attempts to ensure the significant progress before Paris . 
Lithuania has around three million of inhabitants and is responsible for less 
than 0.05 per cent of global annual greenhouse gas emissions . Nev ertheless , 
Lithuania has shown its political will and took legally binding national 
climate change mitigation targets. Since 1990 Lithuania has reduced its 
greenhouse gas emissions by 56 percent and at the same time ensur ed 
decoupling of econom y growth from emissions . 
We have adopted the long term National Lo w Carbon Development and 
Adaptation Strategy and its Implementation Action Plan . Concreate action s 
have been already t aken to ensure the implementation of adaptation and 
mitigation targets . 
We have launched ambitious programs for modernization of public and multi -
apartment build ings, for improvement of energy efficiency and use of 
renewable energy sources . Lithuania uses 23 percent of renewables in final 
energy consumption and annually increases energy efficiency by 1.5 percent. We have established the Special Climate Change Program . 100 percent of 
revenues from emission trading are allocated to it and m ore than 120 million 
US dollars have been used for energy efficiency and renewable energy 
projects up to date . 
As European Union Member State we are committed to continue our efforts 
to fight climate change and to contribute our fair share to the N ew Climate 
Agreement.  
We have to demonstrate respons ibility we feel for our planet and its future . 
We have to take effective individual actions and to find efficient global 
solutions to fight climate change . In this context I would like to encourage all 
Parties to communicate their intended national ly determined contributions in 
line with the Warsaw timetable . 
It is of the highest importance to adopt a global legally binding agreement, 
applicable to all, by 2015 at the latest . 
Thank you! 
 
 