 
REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS 
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
PO BOX 1349 
MAJURO, MARSHALL ISLANDS 96960 
 
Phone: (692) 625 -3181/3012 Fax: (692) 625 -4979 Email: mofapol@ntamar.net RMI Website: http//www.rmiembassyus.org/ 
 
 
Hon. Mr. Tony A. deBrum 
Minister of Foreign Affairs 
Republic of the Marshall Islands 
High Level Segment of the 20th Conference of Parties to the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
Lima, Peru  9 December 2014 
 
Check against delivery 
 
Mr. Secretary General, Madame Executive Secretary, Minister Pulgar -Vidal, 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I wish to thank Minister Pulgar -Vidal and the host nation of Peru for your hospitality - 
but also for your strong leadership as COP President. 
 
All of us are in Lima to deliver a strong Paris Protocol next year.  We are have some 
strong wind in our sails from recent and robust announcements by major economies - the 
EU, China and the US - from world leaders who met in New York at a historic UN 
Clima te summit - and from hundreds of thousands, including myself, who marched in the 
streets to say “this is our time.”  We will not fail. 
 
The Marshall Islands, like other atoll states of Kiribati, Tuvalu and Maldives, lies a little 
more than a meter above se a level.  I am not an alarmist - but the science consensus – and 
impacts we are already seeing at home - is rightfully alarming. 
 
Ours is not a story of passive victimhood - we are not waiting for the "climate coconut" 
to fall on our heads - we are the act ive drivers of change. 
 
This September, as he tabled new national climate initiatives in New York, Marshall 
Islands President Christopher Loeak became the first head of state to confirm his 
attendance at the Paris talks next year. 
 
The future viability of the Marshall Islands – and all island nations - is at stake. Success 
in Paris is more than political compromises.  Success is an agreement that gives my 
country a fighting chance – success is not three or four degrees of warming – and success 
is not loss and damage. Despite recent breakthough announcements from major emitters 
– the world is still way off track.  And it is due time that all of us started being much 
REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS 
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
PO BOX 1349 
MAJURO, MARSHALL ISLANDS 96960 
 
Phone: (692) 625 -3181/3012 Fax: (692) 625 -4979 Email: mofapol@ntamar.net RMI Website: http//www.rmiembassyus.org/ 
more honest in directly addressing this emissions shortfall.  What realistic and 
meaningful answer will the world provide?  
 
Continued silence, or rote recitation of Convention articles like a schoolchild - this is no 
answer at all. Every country in this room – and I mean every country – must play it´s part 
by reaching for the top end of nation al mitigation potential.  Addressing HFCs in the 
Montreal Protocol is another critical step – as proposed by our neighbor the Federat ed 
States of Micronesia. 
 
To be a success, Paris must be about much more than governments and their new 
Protocol – to build the greatest climate alliance ever, we need to engage more far more 
effectively with the full range of non -party actors - business and investors, state and local 
governments, economic entities and the research community, among others -- and for this 
reason the Republic of the Marshall Islands support's Taiwan's aspirations for meaningful 
participation in the UN system, and in particular the UNFCCC.  No one can be left out.  
Everyone must act – there are no free rides and we are all in this together. 
 
Typhoon Haiyan last year – which devastated Palau and the Philippines – and Typhoon 
Hagupit earlier this week – are but signals of far greater risks to come. The Paris moment 
must be about changing the way we build to the new realities of a warming world.  
 
Nations have already pledged significant resources to the Green Climate Fund -- with 
more effort to come.  But this vast climate finance system too often remains out of the 
grasp of those who might need it most.  It is beyond time that the Marshall Island s 
reorder it's own national system to better engage multilateral finance -- but the challenge 
is on all sides of the table.  I urge the Green Climate Fund to help us take forward our 
climate finance readiness work plan - and I urge the donor community to p rovide 
continued and strong engagement with finance sources all the way through the pipeline. 
 
2015 is the year where everyone must take action.  
 
The Republic of the Marshall Islands anticipates tabling our own intended nationally 
determined contribution early next year – to outline our post -2020 energy and emissions - 
and we expect other island nations to join us.  And our message to all of the major 
economies on delivering strong INDCs – “if we can do it, so must you”.  The Marshall 
Islands is actively advancing even more transformational technologies such as Ocean 
Thermal Energy Conversion – our strongest contribution to global deep decarbonization. 
 
Our ambition knows no bounds. 
 
Thank you and kommol tata. 
 