 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Speech of H.E. Secretary Mary Ann Lucille L. Sering 
during the High Level Segment for the COP 20 / CMP 10 
December 10 , 2014 
Lima, Peru 
 
 
His and Her Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, Good Afternoon. 
 
I would like to congratulate the country of Peru and her people for their 
gracious hospitality. I’d like to reiterate our sincerest gratitude for the show 
of solidarity by the global community during the past week when the 
strongest typho on so far to his landfall this year in any part of the world hit 
us. 
 
In behalf of our country, we continue to express our gratitude for the 
overwhelming support that the global community continue to provide a year 
after Haiyan, one of the strongest typhoo ns to hit landfall in history caused 
so much devastation to our country. 
 
We have heard the most eloquent speeches on why we need to act 
already. And yet we continue to count the number of Conference of 
Parties. By Paris, it will be the 21st. Not to mention, the years that were 
spent to agree on the Convention Framework. 
 
I echo the call of the UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon that this is not the 
time for tinkering. It is the time for transformation. That we must deliver 
here in lima a balanced, we ll-structured and coherent draft text as we go to 
Paris next year. 
  
 
 
 
Let us therefore provide a clear, simple but substantive text that will 
elaborate momentum towards Paris. A balanced, well -structured and 
coherent draft text brings hope that finally the world did not just listen to the 
pains of Nature but is finally acting to cure it. 
 
Allow me to leave you with three major points: 
1. Avoid the real man -made catastrophe. I am not talking about the 
cause of global warming since the 1950s but I am talking of the future 
of the Lima talks and most especially of the Paris agreement. If man 
caused the problem, then man must provide the solution. We cannot 
afford it. The implications of the failure of these talks can’t event be 
valued. Losing the credibility of t he UN multilateral process is not 
only an insult to diplomacy but a complete disregard to human rights. 
Let us not allow to render ourselves useless because man was not 
made to be so 
 
2. I welcome the pledges made since COP 19 and up to today even by 
developi ng countries. It is truly encouraging. For us, the GCF is now 
open for business. We will give these financial mechanisms a 
chance to prove their purpose. Let’s utilize them first and criticize 
constructively if necessary. Let’s utilize them properly. Properly 
means not only to allow us to adapt but also to pursue a clean and 
sustainable development that is inclusive and transparent.  
 
3. And lastly, our typhoons have already validated what science has 
long warned. Our typhoons have already spoken on our behalf. Let 
us also give attention to other vulnerable countries most especially 
the members of the Climate Vulnerable Forum. They also have 
stories to tell.  
 
Mabuhay po tayong lahat. Muchas gracias! 
  
 
 
 
 