I would like to share with you my sincere pride of the fact that Poland is 
consistently delivering on climate change policy objectives. Persistence 
and determination in implementing even the most difficult measures are 
shown by both our gover nment and citizens. 
Over the last 25 years after regaining our freedom we managed to 
completely turn around our economy. Our sustainable growth pushed 
GDP up by almost 200% while we successfully cut greenhouse gas' 
emissions but also radica lly improved the quality of the environment as a 
whole. The list of our successes co ntinues. We have overachieved our 
Kyoto target fivefold, shown ma jor progress in energy efficiency and are 
on the way to have 15% of energy consumed coming from renewables in 
2020. 
Last October together with other countries in European Union we 
adopted target of 40% emission reduction by 2030 compared to 1990 
levels, which is the most ambitious climate target in the world. We 
achieved the consensus in spite of many differences between EU 
member states. This agreement was rea ched in a spirit of fairness and 
solidarity. I hope that this ice- breaking European announcement 
followed by American and Chinese will start an avalanche of mitigation actions undertaken throughout the world. 
But we are not only active in mitigation field. Having experienced severe 
consequences of extreme weather condi tions ourselves, such as floods 
and droughts, we are implementing national adaptation strategy. We 
share global community's commitment for building climate resilient economies as well as concerns regarding potential disastrous effects of 
inaction. 
In Poland we do not limit our efforts only to domestic action. Last year's 
COP in Warsaw was the second on e we hosted in Poland (after Poznan 
in 2008) and it was third time that Poland was presiding over this 
process. It is not an exaggeration to say that we have been one of the 
most important midwives of the fu ture global agreement in Paris. 
Apart from supporting the process, we are constantly increasing our 
commitment to support countries in need. Apart from multilateral and 
direct financial support we help to es tablish private-public partnerships 
between Polish providers of environmental technologies and their 
partners in Developing countries. Our GreenEVO project is gaining more 
recognition every year as it has prov en to effectively implement projects, 
create jobs and enhanc e local environmental infrastructure. 
All these achievements would not be possible without involvement of 
Polish citizens. The latest surveys sh ow that as much as 86% of Poles 
consider climate change a major environmental challenge. With 
knowledge comes commitment a nd willingness to act. We are 
experiencing this in Poland and with this realisation we decided together 
with the Peruvian Presidency to launch here in Lima an initiative for the 
Ministerial Declaration on Educat ion and Awareness Raising. I strongly 
hope you will pick up on this issue wi th enthusiasm equal to mine and 
you will support our initiative. 
I'm glad that I could share with you the Polish perspective and our 
achievements. I hope that you'll find our experiences as well as famous 
Polish courage inspiring in y our further work in Lima. 
 
  
 