1 
 
 
Statement at the High-Level Segment 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change COP 21, Paris 
 
Republic of Korea 
 
December 2015 
 
 
 
 
(Mr. President,) 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
It is a great honour for me to address this historic Conference which is 
seeking to adopt the post-2020 new climate regime. 
 
First of all, on behalf of the people of the Republic of Korea, I would 
like to express my condolences to the victims and their families who 
suffered from the horrific terrorist attack in Paris. I would also like to 
convey my sincere gratitude to the Government and the people of 
France who have spared no effort to ensure the success of this 
Conference. 
 
Climate change is the most urgent global challenge we face. Climate 
disasters do not respect national borders - they are occurring almost 
every day, and having ever more severe consequences. This reality is 
an urgent reminder of the pressing need to conclude a new agreement 
here in Paris. In this regard, I welcome the Draft Paris Outcome 
completed by the ADP last week. I believe that it will indeed be a 2 
 good basis for our work to adopt an ambitious new climate agreement 
this week. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
The new climate regime should serve as a platform for our endeavors 
toward reaching the common goal of holding the global temperature 
rise below 2 ℃. To do so, the new regime should meet the following 
requirements. 
 
First, all countries should take climate action to achieve the long-term 
common goal, in light of their different circumstances and capabilities. 
The international community should provide support, including 
technology and capacity building, to ensure the active participation of 
developing countries in taking climate action. 
 
Second, in accordance with the Paris agreement, all Parties should 
formulate and faithfully implement their INDCs, while seeking to 
make these more ambitious over time. This process will be 
instrumental in facilitating the global transformation toward low-
emission, climate-resilient economies. 
 
Third, the new climate regime should be a solid foundation, on which 
all stakeholders, including local governments, businesses and civil 
society organizations, cooperate together to combat climate change. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Korea has strived to play a constructive role in establishing the new 
climate regime. We submitted a fair and ambitious INDC in a timely 
manner. We have earnestly tried to set a valuable example in terms of 
making climate change a fresh opportunity to create future drivers of 
growth through the development of technology and innovation. 
 
Korea is working with developing countries in coping with climate 
change, cooperating with the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and the 3 
 Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI). We are also rendering support 
to more than forty countries for the establishment of their national 
greenhouse gas inventory systems. 
 
Furthermore, Korea has been seeking to contribute to capacity 
building to cope with climate disasters resulting from extreme 
weather events. 
 
We hosted the 6th International Wildland Fire Conference (IWFC) in 
Pyeongchang last October, working with the United Nations 
International Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction (UN ISDR) and the 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). 
 
The Pyeongchang Declaration, the outcome from the 6th International 
Wildland Fire Conference (IWFC), appeals to the international 
community to consider the systematic application of the principles of 
Integrated Fire Management (IFM). In such ways, we will be able to 
maintain and increase terrestrial carbon stocks, and reduce 
unnecessary emissions of pollutants. In accordance with the 
Declaration, Korea along with ASEAN-ROK Forest Cooperation 
(AFoCO), will increase support for a wildland fire management 
training programme in Asian countries. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
There are now only three days left before we reach the deadline for 
concluding the new agreement. Now is a time for action – responsible 
action. 
 
Thank you. 