1 
 SPEECH BY 
HE DATO SRI DR WAN JUNAIDI TUANKU JAAFAR 
HONOURABLE MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 
ENVIRONMENT MALAYSIA 
FOR 
JOINT HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF COP21/ CMP11 
7-11 DECEMBER 2015 
 
Mr. President, Excellenc ies, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
[I would like to convey our profound condol ences to the people of France 
on the recent attacks and to express our solidarity and support in these 
difficult and challenging times. I would also like to take this opportunity to 
convey my sincere appreciation to the people of France for their warm 
hospitality and excellent arrangements ] 
 
In 2009 The Right Honourable Prime Minister of Malaysia Datuk Seri Najib 
Razak announced that Malaysia had adopted a voluntary indicator to 
reduce its greenhouse gas (GHGs) emission s intensity of GDP (Gross 
Domestic Product) by up to 40 per cent compared to 2005 intensity levels 
by 2020, conditional on receiving finance, technology transfer and 
capacity building from developed countries . But for our INDC, we have a 
much higher ambition the figu re which is 45 per cent by 2030. Malaysia 
had incorporated measures to address the issues of climate change, 
environmental degradation and sustainable utilisation of resources under 
the Tenth Malaysia Plan for the period 2011 -2015. This Plan had resulted 
in Malaysia achieving a 33 per cent reduction in emissions intensity of 
GDP by 2013. Durin g this time the energy sector has been the major 2 
 contributor to national GHG emission s. The sector was prioritized for 
mitigation action and saw the introduction of the Renewable Energy Policy 
and the Renewable Energy Act in 2011 . The policy and Act enabled the 
launching of the Feed -in Tariff (FiT) mechanism to accelerate renewable 
energy (RE) growth in Malaysia. 
 
The effort will be continued under the Eleventh Malaysia Plan 2016 -2020 
under the Green Growth Agenda. This agenda calls for strengthening the 
enabling environment, including policy and regulatory framework s, human 
capital and green technology . In addition, i nvestme nt and financial 
instruments will be further strengthe ned. The Green G rowth Agenda 
takes a broad approach that includes c onserving our biodiversity. I would 
like to highlight that Malaysia’s forest cover to date stands at 5 4.5 per cent . 
Here we reaffirm our commitment to maintain at least 50% level of forest 
and tree cover in perpetuity through “zero net deforestation and 
degradation” thus halting net forest loss by deforestation and stopping net 
decline in forest quality. This would be achieved by reforestation and 
enrichment of degraded lands to increase carbon sequestration and 
mitigate climate change effects. 
 
This can be achieved more effectively through expanding the forest 
reserves and protected areas under the Heart of Borneo and the Central 
Forest Spine Initiatives. Currently, we have identified about 144 thousand 
hectares of land area that can be restored in the Central Forest Spine and 
6 million hectares in the Heart of Borneo.  Additionally, Malaysia has also 
implemented REDD+ which saw an estimated total of 97.5 million tonnes 
of CO 2 emissions avoided through improved forest management for the 
period 2006 to 2010.  However, our financial, technical and capacity 
limitations among others, can hinder our progress and effort s to manage 3 
 and conserve the se natural resources . In this regard, external funding can 
offer viable solution s. 
 
Malaysia too is very concerned about adaptation . Program mes on flood 
mitigation alone have accounted for more than MYR9.3 billion in spending 
in the 9th and 10th Malaysia Plan s.  Further funding is required for the 
implementation of mitigation program mes from 2016 onwards. At the 
same time, Malaysia has developed action plans to enhance water 
security under the National Water Resources Policy that also need s to be 
implemented.  
 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Malaysia has demonstrated its commitment in addressing climate change. 
We would like to urge deve loped countries to fulfil their obligations as 
stipulated under the Convention which includes the COP16 decision that 
developing countries should receive financial resources . This obligation 
encompasses providing means of implementation, including technology 
transfer and capacity building for developing countries.  Malaysia suppor ts 
the centrality of the UNFCCC, the importance of equity and transparency 
as well as the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
(CBDR) . Malaysia looks forward to the adoption of a fair and balanced 
agreement and urge all Parties to undertake ambitious emission reduction 
targets for our future generations . 
 
 
 
Lastly, Mr President I am happy to inform that the ASEAN region has once 
again indicated its commitment to address climate change and Malaysia 4 
 as the Chair, will formally submit ASEAN Joint Statement to the 
secretariat.  
 
Thank you. 