 
1 Statement by Yoshio Mochizuki , 
Minister of the Environment of Japan , at COP 20 
 
Thank you, Mr. President. 
 
On behalf of the Government of Japan, allow me to express my sincere 
gratitude to Minister Manuel Pulgar -Vidal and his government for their 
excellent leadership as the COP20 Presidency.  
 
 
Mr. President: 
 
Japan takes the findings of the IPCC ’s Fifth Assessment Report very 
seriously. The report points out the importance of achieving deep cuts in 
emissions in the next few decades and of reducing climate risk through both 
mitigation and adaptation actions. Japan reaffirms the goal to reduce 
emiss ions by 50 percent at the global level and by 80 percent in the 
developed world by 2050. 
 
 
Mr. President: 
 
The post -2020 framework must be fair and effective and applicable to all 
Parties. It is vital that all Parties are obliged to submit quantifiable INDCs, 
take domestic measures aiming to achieve their NDCs, and be reviewed on 
the implementation of their NDCs under the new framework. 
 
Japan aims to submit its INDC as early as possible, keeping in m ind COP 
decisions, efforts by other Parties, discussions on the new framework, and 
domestic consideration of the energy mix. 
 
 
Mr. President: 
 
Japan will utilize every possible tool and cooperate closely with other 
countries in developing a low carbon soci ety.   
2 
Japan has advanced low carbon technologies including off-shore wind 
power generation and fuel cells. We will continue to expand the 
introduction of renewables as well as advance towards a thoroughly energy 
efficient society. Furthermore, a revised law concerning HFCs, which 
strengthen s countermeasures at every stage of the HFC lifecycle from 
production to disposal, will come into effect next April 
 
With these experiences in hand , Japan will contribu te to global GHG 
emissions reduction through environmental technology as well as 
environmental science. The Joint Crediting Mechanism, for which Japan 
has already signed bilateral documents with 12 countries, can be a pillar of 
Japan ’s contribution throug h environmental technology. The first project 
under the JCM, which will be implemented in Indonesia, was registered 
this October. Japan will carry on with steady implementation of JCM 
projects. Also in October, the Innovation for Cool Earth Forum, ICEF, was 
held in Tokyo as an international forum to assemble the wisdom of industry, 
government and academia . We intend to continue to hold the ICEF every 
year to facilitate innovation. 
In addition , Japan will continue to support mitigation actions in developing 
countries, including support for the development of INDCs. Japan has also 
been active in the conservation of forests in Peru and other regions. Last 
month, a REDD plus platform was launched to facilitate public -private 
collaboration. 
 
Furthermore, Japan has announced concrete examples of actions under the 
“Adaptation Initiative” launched by Prime Minister Abe at the UN Climate 
Summit this September to support the adaptive capacity of developing 
countries in a holistic manner . Moreover , the first forum of the Global 
Adaptation Network will be held in Panama next March to bring together 
and share knowledge of different regions. W ith regard to disaster risk 
reduction, which is deeply linked to climate change, Japan will host the 
Third World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai city in March 
next year. I eagerly look forward to the participation of world leaders at this 
conference. 
 
3 Regarding financial assistance, Japan intends to make a contribution of up 
to $1.5 billion to the Green Climate Fund (GCF), subject to the approval of 
the Diet, and hopes more countries will make contributions. 
Additionally, Japan will endeavor to ensure efficient and effective climate 
actions are taken in developing countries by further developing tools such 
as the Climate Technology Network and Center and strengthening linkages 
with financial mechanisms. 
 
In order to ensure a successful 2015 agreement, Japan will continue to take 
actions towards a low carbon society. 
 
Thank you for your kind attentio n. 