1 
 
The Republic of South Sudan 
Ministry of Environment , 
Juba 
 
Speech To COP20 and CMP10 
Lima, Peru. 
13th December, 2014 
 
Presented by: 
Mr. Victor Wurda LoTombe Yugusuk 
Undersecretary 
Ministry of Environment 
 
Madame President, 
The M inister of Environment and Enegy , Peru 
Honorable Ministers  
UN Agency representatives 
Development partners  
 
Madame president, Distiguished and I nvited Guest s, Ladies and Gentelmen 
It is my pleasure to participate in this important international event and an 
honour to address this meeting of the COP20 and CMP10 as a representative of 
the Government of the Republic of South Sudan , delegated by my Minister – Hon. 
Deng Deng Hoc Yai, Minister of Environment.  
 
Allow me to please convey greetings from president Gen. Salva Kiir Mayardid and 
the people of South Sudan. I acknowledge the participation of States ’ Party 
Members and the important stakeholders all over the world to the COP20 and 
PMC10 . Appreciations to the participation of the South Sudan delagates here this 
week which signifies our collective interest, energies and commitment towards 
not only seeing the end of climate change emergencies, but even more 
importantly, we are vesting our hope in realising a vison of improvement on 
climate change, that will hopefully lead to peaceful and v ibrant International, 
regional and national economic developement . 
 
 Once again, thank s to the Government and the people of the Republic of Peru for 
the warm wecome and presidented hospitality. The UNFCC Secretariat and the 
Platform for bringing us together. Beh ind this gathering I atrongly belied is a 
dedicated effort and work is taking a different direct ion; By and large, we must 
thank you for keeping the momentum on ending drought , address REDD + issues 
and the general climare change emergencies in accordance to Kyoto protocol 
modalities . 2 
 
Distiguished Guests, Ladies and Gentelmen ; on the behalf of the Government 
of the Republic of South Sudan , the people and the M inister of environmnet who 
due to many reas ons has not been able to attend; accept please our apology for 
arriving late to this meeting of international importance , which is due mainly to 
logistical problem. In fact , I started my journey on Thursday December 4th but 
only to arrive on the 9th instant . Though late, the government of the Republic of 
South Sudan would like to show s oliderity with UN and to express  commitment 
to the support of the Member States in standing with us not only in resolving 
both regional and internal conflicts, but making effeort for South Sudan to 
become a party member to the UNFCC particularly and other UN MEAS.  
 
Dear Distiguished Guests, 
South Sudan has acceded a number of MEAS and protocols such as the RAMAR 
on Biodiversity, The Ozone, REED + conventions and others. It is working to 
wards ractifying and or acceding the UNFCC and other protocols as soon as 
conditions will allow; though given the situation at hand, facing financial 
difficulties to carr y out enablin g activity and subsequent problem to meet ing 
compliance. I kindly Urge and would like to remind the LCD group in particular 
that the financial and the technical issues raised and discussed in Bangkok during 
the last Minamata Convention Meeting were cruicia lly indicative of same 
experiences facing the progress on other conventions including the UNFCC 
convention.  
 
Climate Change effects are now a reality. For example this year , Sotuh Sudan 
experienced some basic defferences in rain fall pattern which is higher than two 
to three decate or more ago! Here desertification recked the entire sub - saharan 
– region. P hysically affecting both environmental and huan fabrics and creating a 
wide spreaded insecurity, economic desparity and health hazards. Witnessed by 
displacement of an estimated population of about 13M people by 2010/11 in 
Africa alone . In the low temperate regions , ice melting caued seas and ocean 
rising. Making life difficult too.  
 
 During the last IGAD meeting in Nairobi, we were remineded by the quotation 
from Albert Einstein, paraphased who said:  
 
‘The significant problems we face today cannot be solved by the same 
level of thinking that created them.” 
 
Your Excellencies, Distiguished delegates , Ladies and Gentelmen ; This 
simply means humans have to re -think the course of action and change strategic 
planning modules. Unity for cause in climate change is important in which South 
Sudan as a new nation, needs cooperation and support t o gain ing knowledge and 
strength more than many may be. 3 
 
 
At the Summit in S eptember 2011, it was said surprisinglythat drought for 
example arrives at our doors after mon ths of warnings. But “the disaster is how 
inappropriate investment for example has made communities vulnerable to 
drought , eroded their capacity to cope for resilience .” 
 
Acknowledging this is what should gi ve us the enegy to rethink ing remodling our 
strategies , our way of doin g things so that we can rise above limitations, to get a 
different and better outcome for the future of the future generations . 
 
Distiguished and Invited Guests, Ladies and Gentelmen , 
The urgency is perhaps even more emphasized by the regional and global climate 
chage crises that have unravel led particularly the mother earth so much in our 
times . 
 
On top of the impacts of climate change, we have suffered global shocks in 
experiencing contious insecurity due to the fact that resou nce are becomming 
scurse and life expensive . 
 
Context ually Dear Delegates, 
The key highlights of our country - the R epublic of South Sudan report include s 
some work on few national enabling activities for UNFCCC in particular and other 
few MEAS financed by Geff . The national action plan proposals were made to the 
Steering Committee.  
 
Allow me Your Excellencies to state that although South Suda is under goi ng a 
difficult trasition, yet th is will not abstract us from commiting and dedicating our 
efforts for the general wellfare of the global community . We therefore take this 
opportunity to present those issues of strategic importance proposed for action 
by the government : 
 
 Our most important commitment was to once again unwaveringly affirm 
the fundamental right to freedom from hunger for all our citizens by 
addressing climate change and other pressing environmental issues. 
 
 We also committed to taking a disaster risk reduction approac h to long -
term investment, address the root causes of vulnerability to drought and 
build resilience , qualify both climatic and economic improvement 
pograms. 
 
 Ambeciously plan with the help of UN, to plant 1m trees across the county 
to curve desrtication. 
 4 
 
 
 Recognising climate change , the transboundary , international and regional 
impacts of it s consequences, we committed to universal and united plan of 
action . Fore exmple in 2006/7 we had a transboundary memorundum of 
unerstanding with Uganda on natural resources along the borders in five 
transboundary Protected areas - taking into consideration water, whildlife 
and forestry aspect . 
 
 Within the Nairobi Strategy during UNEA too, Member States 
acknowledged the broader impacts of climate change, citing the growing 
impact of more frequent and severe floods , deforestat ion in addition to 
general climate change matters . 
 
 We also refl ect on the commitments to the global Member States, the 
commitments of support of our development partners . That sooner, South 
Sudan will acceding the UNFCC convention. But there is need to finance the 
enabling activies. 
 
Distiguished and Invited Guests, Ladies and Gentelmen 
Before closing , there are thr ee important things we need to express here:  
 We appl aud the fellow Member States and development partners that 
South Sudan stand s to gain support and to learn from you . 
 
 Finally and most importantly, I wish to affirm the political will and 
commitment of the Government of the Republic of South Sudan to 
particularly support the UNFCC and CMP secretariats’ initiative s. South 
Sudan will tir elessly work in cooperation, coordination and collaboration 
with the UN agencies and all stakeholders to UNFCCC. 
 
Thank you . 