Mr. President,

Your Excellencies,
Distinguished delegates,
Ladies and gentlemen,

Global climate change is a serious environmental threat with growing
economic and social consequences. Climate change action has
become a key ingredient for achieving sustainable development for all
countries in the world, regardless of geography or income status. The
commitments of every nation to cope with climate change are
fundamental to the post-2015 development agenda, expressed in the
Goal 17 of the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the 70"
session of the United Nations General Assembly. Every nation has an
opportunity and obligation to appropriately contribute to the common
task of keeping the global average temperature within a
manageable span to save our home planet and livelihoods.

Mongolia is one of the most vulnerable countries to impacts of
climate change due to its geographic location and climate conditions
as well as structure and development level of economic sectors,
and life style of the people. 

In response Mongolia has adopted national, legally binding policies 
and action plans to address climate related challenges. IN 2000,
Mongolia developed its National Action Programme on Climate Change,
most recently updated in 2011. This Programme sets
priorities for action and integrates climate change concerns into other
national and sectoral development planning.

More recently, the National Parliament approved the Green
Development Policy in 2014, which included ambitious targets for
both adaptation measures and mitigation actions. The Green
Development Policy sets out the vision for Mongolia’s transition to a
development model that results in human well-being by safeguarding
environmentally friendly, inclusive economic growth and maintaining
the sustainability of ecosystem services.

Mongolia defined the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution
(INDC) which is aimed to address a certain mitigation challenges.
We put the target to reduce GHG emission by 14 percent by 2030
compared to the projected emissions under a business as usual
scenario level of 2010. For successful implementation of these actions
and measures we need more investment and financial support. Just
one example, in Mongolia, we have to spend 13-15 cents to
produce 1kBt electricity from wind energy, while spending only 5
cents to produce it by coal.

In this respect there is need to increase technical assistance,
investment through international and regional financial mechanisms
such as Green climate fund and other special funds for advanced
technology transfer and related capacity building.

I do hope that these and other similar challenges would be reflected in
the final document. Mongolia is fully committed to contribute to the
negotiation process so that this historical Conference will succeed to
adopt necessary regulatory instrument which would open new page in
the international cooperation activities on climate change.

