Remarks by His Excellency Ali Al-Naimi
Minister of Petroleum & Mineral Resources

Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

In the 21" session of

the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)

See ra Ps pe we vee ee

Mr. Chairman,
Your Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,

I have the honor to participate, on behalf of the Custodian of the Two Holy
Mosques King Salman ibn Abdulaziz, King of Saudi Arabia, in the 21" session of
the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC). This meeting creates the opportunity to reach
decisions that will pave the way for a new agreement for the benefit of all
mankind.

The Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia extends its sincerest thanks to
the Government of the Republic of France for its outstanding efforts in the
preparation for this conference.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia stresses that the new Paris agreement must take into
account the principles and provisions of the current Framework Convention on
Climate Change. This includes, especially, the principle of common but
differentiated responsibilities, based on the national priorities and circumstances of
each country. In addition, the new agreement must strike a fair balance between
greenhouse gas emissions reduction requirements and adaptation to the adverse
effects of climate change, and must cover all sectors instead of focusing
exclusively on the energy sector.

In this context, we call for the adoption of emissions reduction policies that do not
discriminate against any of the energy sources, and that these sources be viewed as
complementary to each other in a way that contributes to the achievement of
sustainable development for all. The new agreement should take into account the
necessary steps to deal with the negative impacts of response measures, especially
for countries relying on limited sources of income related to the achievement of the
Convention’s objectives.

PAGE 2

Mr. Chairman,

In order to increase the long-term benefits and minimize potential negative effects
on the international community, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is willing to
participate actively in the promotion and implementation of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change. In this context, the Kingdom has
submitted its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions under the decision
reached in the 18" session of the Conference of the Parties in Doha on the
economic diversification initiative, through which the Kingdom will take action,
adopt plans and implement programs designed to accelerate economic
diversification and achieve the common benefits of avoiding greenhouse gas
emissions, adaptation to the effects of climate change, and mitigation of the
impacts of response measures.

I would like, in conclusion, to point out that the global nature of climate change
requires an effective and adequate international response in accordance with our
common but differentiated responsibilities, and the success of such response lies in
achieving climate goals in a way that makes it possible to proceed with economic
development in a sustainable manner. We are confident that the States Parties to
the UNFCCC will shoulder their responsibilities and reach an agreement that
serves humanity and future generations.

Thank you.

PAGE 3

