 
 
 
 
 Republic of Uganda  
 
 
 
HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE 21ST SESSION OF THE 
CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS 
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND 11TH 
SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES, SERVING AS 
MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYO TO PROTOCOL, 
29TH NOVEMBER TO 11TH DECEMBER 2015; PARIS, FRANCE, 
 
STATEMENT BY 
 
PROF. EPHRAIM KAMUNTU 
MINISTER OF WATER AND ENVIRONMENT AND HEAD OF THE 
UGANDA DELEGATION TO COP21/CMP11 
 
                  Paris, 8 December 2015 . 
 
 
 
Excellency, Laurent Fabius , President of COP 21 / CMP 11; 
Excellencies 
Heads of Delegations 
Distinguished Delegates ; 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Uganda joins the rest of the world in expressing our sympathy for the terrorist 
attack that killed innocent people here in Paris.  
 
Mr. President, 
From the outset, l et me express my gratitude to the Government and people of 
France for hosting this important C onference . We also thank Peru for hosting 
the previous Conference which set a firm basis for del iberations at this 
Summit. 
 
Mr. President, 
This C onference is important and timely for address ing climate change - one 
of the contemporary a rch challenges threatening the survival of humanity and 
mother earth. 
For Uganda, c limate change has contributed to severe weather conditions 
including drought s, floods, landslides, soil erosion, melting of ice caps,  
 famine and disease s all of which have negatively impacted the livelihood s of 
our people.  
It is, therefore, important for this C onference to arrive at a legally -binding 
agreement on climate change to be implemented on the basis of equity and the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibility and respective 
capabilit ies. 
 
Mr. President, 
We call upon developed countries to demonstrate the necessary po litical will 
to ensure that critical issues under the Durban mandate such as mitigation; 
adaptation; loss and damage; means of implementation especially scaled -up 
financ ing, technology development and transfer ; capacity building; 
transparency of action and support are addressed in the agreement in a 
comprehensive and balanced manner . 
 In this regard, there is need for developed countries to make firm 
commitments and adequate support to the Green Climate Fund , the Least 
Developed Countries Fund , as well as the Adaptation Fund to address the 
special needs of the poorest and most vulnerable countries Uganda inclusive.  
 
Mr. President, 
Pursuant to the provisions of the UN Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (UNFCCC) on differentiation of Parties, we urge deve loped countries 
to make firm commitments on deep reductions in greenhouse g as (GHG) 
emissions to curtail the global temperature raise to below 1.5 degrees 
Centigrade. On intended nationally determined c ontributions (INDC s), 
Uganda is happy to be among thos e countries that have submitted their INDCs 
 It is our hope that the agreement under consideration will provide for 
measurable, veriviable and periodic update of contributions under an 
established international transparen t and complian t framework . 
Mr Presid ent. 
To conclude , Uganda ns look to this Conference for a positive outcome 
because a of its significance to our survival . Uganda has contributed barely to 
global warming and yet continues to bear disproportionate brunt of its climate 
change effects. We mus t work together, in the spirit of genuine partnership, to 
decisively and effectively address these effects for the sake of the survival of 
humanity and saving the planet.  
 
Mr. President 
I thank you for your attention. 
 