1 
 
Solomon Islands Statement at UNFCCC COP21 
Hon. S. Manetoali (MP), Minister of Environment, Climate Change, 
Disaster Management and Meteorology 
Paris 2015 
Mr. President,  
 
I bring sincere greetings from Solomon Islands to the government and people of 
France. Solomon Islands joins the international community in standing in 
solidarity with France over the recent tragic events and condemn all terrorist 
attacks globally.  
 
Mr. President,  
 
Climate change is equally causing havoc around the world. The world is going 
through one of the hottest years ever recorded, the frequency and intensity of 
climate induced disasters are now an annual event in my country. It is 
undermining sustainable development , and fueling poverty and hardship in 
countries contributing the least to its cause , yet suffer the most adverse climatic 
impacts.  
 
It is in this connection, my delegation is here to support the French Presidency 
and working with all 193 Parties in getting a comprehensive, ambitious and 
legally binding Agreement to save our people . 
 
Mr. President,  
 
Despite the submissions of Intended National ly Determined Contribution s (INDC) 
by Parties, regretfully ambition remains low; we are on track to see global 
temperature increase to more than 3 degrees Celsius. This is in direct conflict 
with the objective of the Convention. Our task at this historic gathering is to 
breathe new life into the twenty -three year old Climate Change Convention as 
climate change is fast creating an uncertain future for all. 
 
In the remaining four days, we must collectively establish medium and long-term 
emission reduction pathways capable of limiting temperature increase to well 
below 1.5 degrees . We must also enhance implementation of the Kyoto Protocol 
which is fundamental to enhance pre 2020 climate action. It lays a solid 
2 
 foundation for enhanced post 2020 action to secure aggregate emission 
pathways consistent to achieve a below 1.5 degrees Celsius. Stabilizing global 
temperature increase to well below 1.5 degrees Celsius will enable my country to 
sign onto the new Agreement.  
 
My delegation, wish to register  its grave concern on last week's failure of the 
Convention's two subsidiary bodies in not concluding consideration of the 2013-
2015 review of the global temperature goal under the Structured Expert Dialogue 
report. Science should guide the decisions of the Conference and I urge under 
your leadership that COP 21 address the findings of the report .  
 
Mr. President,  
 
Solomon Islands supports the one hundred and thirty four developing countries 
in pushing for a Loss and Damage Article under the Paris Agreement. This is 
spelt out in Article 5 of which we would like to see a Loss and Damage institution 
to deal with permanent loss and damage as a result of climate change. We 
would also like to see the institution fully supported to carry out its mandate.  
 
Solomon Islands while it emits a mere 0.01% of global emissions , under our 
INDC we are punching way above our weight taking on more than our fair share 
in being part of the global solution. Solomon Islands commits to reduce its 
greenhouse gas emissions by 12% below 2015 level by 2025 and 30% below 
2015 level by 2030. Furthermore, Solomon Islands can contribute a further 27% 
reduction in emissions by 2025 and 45% reduction in emissions by 2030 with 
appropriate international assistance. In this connection, a REDD+ mechanism 
and support to strengthen carbon sinks and implement INDCs must be part of 
the new agreement. 
 
Solomon Islands welcomes Republic of China/Taiwan's INDC and its new law to 
manage greenhouse gas emissions, and would reiterate our support for Taiwan’s 
meaningful participation in the UNFCCC process because no one should be left 
behind.  
 
Mr. President,  
 
Climate change is man-made problem and can be addressed, here in Paris. We 
are the last generation that will be remembered to guarantee humanity ’s 
survival. We have one shot at getting it right. Let us not fail our people and the 
future of humanity . 
Thank you! 