 
 
 
 
UNFCCC COP20/CMP10 
LIMA, PERU 2014 
 
STATEMENT OF THE 
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF TONGA 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
My delegation extends its sincere appreciation to the Government and people of Peru 
for th eir warm hospitality and kindness accorded to us since our arrival . 
 
1. Allow me to also associate ourselves with the statements delivered by Nauru on behalf 
of the Alliance of Small Island States, and Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China . 
Mr. President , 
2. It is clearly evident that the climate change paradigm is at the forefront of today ’s 
 global issues having garnered global momentum faster than all other world issues due 
 to its ominous impacts to global co -existence, and no -where is this m ore evident than 
 in the low -lying islands of the Pacific. 
3. Tonga’s smallness in size, and low -lying and scattered geography , has placed her as 
 one of many small islands living on the frontlines of climate change. Tonga has been 
 identified as the second most -at-risk country in the world to natural hazards, which is 
 further compounded by the adverse impacts of climate change. 
 
4. Testament to these climate impacts is the most recent Tropical Cyclone Ian. A 
 Category 5 cyclone , which in January of this year, devastated Tonga’s central 
 island group of Ha’apai resulting in destruction totalling US$120 Million. 
 
5. With science propos ing an increase in frequency and intensity of tropical cyclones, this 
places an even greater burden on Tonga and all S mall Island Developing States. Yet 
we remain committed to mitigating these risks to our lives and livelihoods , and to 
building our capacity and resilience. 
 
 
 Mr. President , 
 
6. Tonga recognize s the threat that climate change poses, and has made significant steps 
toward a more resilient and sustainable future through application of both vertical and 
horizontal integration of climate change related stakeholders ensuring a ‘whole -of-
country approach’ in the fight against climate change . 
 
7. Tonga is the pioneer in the synthesis of Climate Change and Disaster Risk through 
implementation of our Joint National Action Plan on Climate Change Adaptation and 
Disaster Risk Management, and we have now increased our mitigation efforts to 
achieve an ambitious 100% RE by 2020 via Tonga’s Energy Road Map. 
 
8. Tonga also pioneered the Pacific Region in the establishment of its Parliamentary 
Standing Committee on Environment, Climate Change and Disaster, and the first in 
the Pacific to implement its Third National Communication. 
 
9. These activities are testament to Tonga’s marked increase and high priority to 
 both mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change. 
 
10. Tonga consider s climate change to be the greatest threat to our very survival , 
 and have highlighted through national efforts, the need to respond urgently 
 and adequately to the social, economic and security impacts of climate change, to 
 ensure our survival and viability . 
 
Mr. President , 
 
11. With only 0.01 % of global emissions produced by the Pacific as a region, Tonga 
 understands that we co -exist in a Global Commons, and that as a global family we 
 must foster global partnerships as a measure to catalyze global ambitions. 
 
12. Yet, in light of our limited human resources, and economic capacity, we as one of the 
worlds most vulnerable countries, have no alternative but to leave no stone unturned, 
or leave anything to chance, and spare no expense , because no monetary value can be 
ascribed to ‘one’s ri ght to exist’. 
 
13. It is in this context , that the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Tonga urge 
world leaders to revise their development strategies by taking up the challenge of 
adopting and reverting to more sustainable means for develop ment, which is key to 
ensuring a sustainable and cleaner future for all. 
 
14. The failure to act and implement such initiatives to counter the effects of climate 
change will guarantee the rapid deterioration of our planet , our people, our islands, and 
our cultures. 
 
15. Chair, al low me to call on world leaders to seek solutions that focus on 
 accelerating actions and increasing ambition and to also take concrete action 
 nationally and in doing so we may discontinue existing in this ‘Tragedy of t he 
 Commons’ 
 
16. Finally a s Chair of the Pacific Sm all Island Developing States (PSIDs) , a group statement will be attached herein and uploaded to the UNFCCC website. 
 
 Thank you Mr. President , 
 
Malo ‘aupito 
 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………. 
 
 
 
 
PACIFIC SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES 
 
 
 
 
Statement from the Pacific Small Island Developing States (PSIDS) at the 
Opening of the High -level Segment of the 20th Conference of the Parties and 
the 10th Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol: Peru, Lima; 11 December 2014 
 
Mr. President, 
His Excellency the Secretary -General of the United Nations, 
Madam Executive Secretary, 
Excellencies, 
Distingu ished Representatives, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
1. The following Pacific Small Island Developing States (PSIDS) are 
represented in Lima, namely: Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, 
Kiribati, Nauru, Republic of Marshall Islands, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, 
Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Tuvalu. The PSIDS Group also aligns itself with the 
Statement delivered by the Chair of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS). 
 
2. The PSIDS Group would like to extend its deep appreciation to you, the 
people, and the Government of Peru for hosting this very important event for the 
great hospitality and support provided to our delegations. 
 
3. Recognizing that 2014 is the International Year of SIDS the PSIDS Group 
were actively involved in this year’s SIDS confere nce, as with the Rio, Barbados, 
Johannesburg, Mauritius and Rio+20 conferences. As articulated by the Hon. 
Prime Minister of Samoa: “the 'special case of SIDS’ is a clear recognition by 
partners of our vulnerabilities and the unique challenges faced by o ur small, 
isolated, but incredibly beautiful and unique island nations”. 
 
 4. We share the concerns the UN Secretary General raised a few months ago 
at the UN Climate Summit on Climate change in New York about the extreme 
vulnerability of Small Island Developi ng States. The Pacific region has many of the 
most low -lying countries on Earth – Kiribati, Tuvalu and the Marshall Islands, 
parts of FSM, Cook Islands, Fiji, Palau, Solomon Islands, PNG, as well as Nauru. 
 
5. Although our Pacific countries only contribute 0 .03% of the world’s 
greenhouse gas emissions, we will be the first to go under water if the business as 
usual scenarios of the IPCC eventuate. We have continuously called for ambitious 
global targets which would ensure our long term survival as nations. As you may 
know, SIDS have called for the most ambitious target of limiting global warming 
to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre -industrial levels.  
 
6. We must all work collectively, with a sense of urgency and purpose, to 
address these challenges a nd to support all island countries to become more 
resilient. 
 
7. In the Pacific, our actions on the ground focus on strengthening resilience 
– through implementation of climate change adaptation and renewable energy 
strategies in sectors such as water, agricu lture, food security, health, tourism, 
energy and coastal zone management, continuing to build on the lessons and good 
practices from our climate change projects. 
 
8. Pacific island countries are taking measures to protect and better manage 
natural ecosystems and address emerging challenges. This is vital to protect our 
precious island biodiversity and also as a key front line response to a changing 
climate and rising sea levels. Our work on the ground is based on the best 
available science, drawn from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
and other credible research programs. 
 
9. The point is that the Pacific Island Countries have done a lot on climate 
change with limited resources, but much more n eeds to be done. On adaptation, 
we need to replicate the successes of effective projects. This is a key message for 
the UNFCCC – the Pacific have the skills and knowledge to implement real tangible 
solutions. The guidance to the financing mechanisms sho uld call for flexibility for 
SIDS and allow for replication of best practices, and should be commensurate to 
needs in the region. 
 
10. The climate change negotiations are entering a crucial stage as we prepare 
for developing a new legal instrument. While many terms are being used to 
describe it, in the region our stakeholders are very clear that we talk about a 
legally binding treaty. The Pacific needs certainty and assurances that all countries 
will do what the eventual treaty will say. The issue is too i mportant. Climate 
change has as much if not more destructive power than the scourge of terrorism, and we do not hear leaders talk about setting up a voluntary market based 
response to counter terrorism! There are no endless discussions on whether there 
should be co -financing measures to protect our citizens. 
 
11. Furthermore, we hope to seek clarity on the INDC process at this session. 
It is important for the long term survival of SIDS that the ambitions put forward 
by countries deliver real reductions in e missions that can be quantifiable, and are 
measurable and transparent. As mentioned earlier, SIDS stand ready to do their 
part, and with assistance from the international community stand ready to 
contribute with concrete climate actions. We call on devel opment partners to 
accelerate technical and financial support to the Pacific Island countries to enable 
us to develop our INDCs and translate our ambitious aspirations into actions. 
 
12. While SIDS stand ready to contribute to global actions on climate chan ge, 
it can only do so through the provision of on -going financial and technical support. 
We are most appreciative, therefore, of the on -going work to ensure that the GCF 
becomes operational, and we trust that the capacity constraints faced by SIDS will 
be taken into consideration when determining criteria to access funds. At the 
same time the Adaptation Fund is an important funding mechanism to our region, 
and we call for continued support, including the 80 million dollars that has been 
requested to ensur e that the AF remains operational. We would also like to note 
that our private sector is willing to engage on climate change but the current one -
size-fits-all approach of the Multilateral Development Banks is not conducive to 
the constructive and innovativ e ideas coming from our region. Having a $10 
million floor for concessional loans represents a “valley of death” for climate 
change financing. 
 
13. Loss and Damage is an important issue to all PSIDS. As such, we fought 
hard to have the Warsaw Internationa l Mechanism established at COP 19.  
 
14. Addressing loss and damage from the adverse effects of climate change is 
an issue of fundamental importance to the Pacific Islands whose communities and 
economies are trying to cope with immediate losses that are no w being 
experienced for which there is no capacity to respond. Indeed the very existence 
of a number of our member countries is in peril and the science tells us that impact 
such as sea level rise, ocean acidification and temperature increases are 
manifest ing faster and in greater volume than predicted just five years ago.  
 
15. We are placed in a position of having to deal with loss and damage from 
climate change impacts that cannot be adapted to. The very survival of our 
member nations is in all our hands . This is a grave responsibility and we must act 
with the urgency it demands. 
 
16. We would like to acknowledge the efforts and work done by the Interim 
Executive Committee on the two -year work plan. We therefore, would like to take 
this opportunity to th ank the members of the interim Executive Committee for 
their efforts and hard work. 
 17. It is imperative that the work ahead places clear focus and priority on 
particularly vulnerable developing countries supported by partners as it is set out 
in Article 4 of the Convention. 
 
18. We are of the opinion that Loss and Damage should be included in the new 
legal agreement within the Ad -hoc Working Group on the Durban Platform for 
Enhanced Action (ADP) and we believe that it must be treated as an individual and 
separate element because work on loss and damage goes beyond the ability and 
threshold of adaptation actions. 
19. It is quite clear to the Pacific that neither adaptation, nor mitigation alone 
will avoid the damages and losses that are currently being exp erienced and will 
continue to experience in the short to medium term. Pacific island countries, 
therefore, view as mandatory that the long -term global temperature rise does not 
exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius and that mitigation ambition accurately reflects the 
long -term global goal. This is crucial for the survival today of particularly 
vulnerable countries and for all countries tomorrow. By keeping global 
temperature rise to below 1.5 C, we can hope for less risk of permanent loss and 
damage in the long term. 
 
20. It is essential that resource mobilization, support and building the capacity 
at the national and regional levels to address the issues related to loss and damage 
continues by establishing a financial facility to complement the work of the 
Executive Committee as it implements its work plan. 
 
21. Although there might be similarities in the work of other bodies outside of 
the Convention let us all be clear that no other international institution deals with 
issues related to human -induced, anthropogenic climate change. Therefore, we 
should always bear this in mind as the focus of our work here. 
 
22. The IPCC AR5 and the presentations made here, has provided us with a 
further wakeup call in relation to the review of the long term goal on climate 
change. F our out of the five RFCs have been identified by IPCC as being of 
moderate to high risk for a warming level of 1.5 degrees: 
 
(i). Unique Systems: Ecosystems and cultures, e.g. coral reef system. Already 
high at 1.5°C warming 
 
(ii). Extreme weather: Tropical cyclones, droughts and floods. High impacts 
on crop yields and water availability. Risk assessed high to moderate at 1.5°C 
 
(iii). Distribution: Unevenly distributed for countries at all levels of 
development. Tropical and low -lying countries most vulnerab le 
 
(iv). Aggregate Impacts: on global economy - Moderate at 1.5°C. Aggregate 
nature insensitive to country differences; and 
 
(v). Singular Events: Irreversible tipping points. Most relevant for sea -level 
rise 
 23. We therefore call for action by the COP to e nsure that this review is 
completed in a timely manner so that it can inform parties in making their INDCs, 
and in informing our decision making in Paris. From our perspective, a 1.5 degree 
target is essential, as we are already experiencing destructive ev ents and impacts 
under the current less than 1 degree Celsius level. 
 
24. Ocean observation and acidification are critical issues for PSIDS and there 
is an extreme lack of observation stations as well as analysis laboratories in SIDS. 
In particular the Paci fic is under -served when it comes to observation stations and 
other forms of data collection. We would urge development partners to support 
SIDS in improving their observation networks and establish new monitoring 
stations. 
 
25. In this regard, the work of WMO on GFCS is welcomed, and again we call 
for development partners to utilize this framework to assist SIDS with enhancing 
their observation systems, including for ocean acidification. 
 
26. We request that the development partners heed our call for greate r 
financial and technical resources to be provided in particular to SIDS regions. 
 
 
We thank you, Mr. President. 
 