Page 1 of 5 
 HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF UNFCCC COP-20 
Statement by Mr. Prakash Javadekar, Hon’ble Minister of State with 
independent Charge for Environment, Forests & Climate Change 
December 9, 2014 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I am delighted to be in this hist oric and beautiful city of Lima. 
Let me first of all express my heartfelt thanks to the Government and people of 
Peru and in particular the city of Lima for their warmth and gracious hospitality. 
On the occasion of the Gender Day today, I salute the women of the world who 
play such a central role in preserving nature. 
Mr. President, COP-20 in Lima I believe is the COP of Hope. As Ministers, we have brought the positive expectations of our people to this 
meeting and we hope to achieve a positive outcome which will set us on the path to 
an ambitious, comprehensive and equitable agreement at Paris next year. 
Mr. President, The new Government in India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi represents the 
hopes and aspirations of more than a billio n Indian people for growth and inclusive 
development. We are pursuing action-orien ted policies to bring rapid development 
to our people while purposefully addressing climate change. 
We have shown that we have the vision and the political will to act. 
Among the several measures we have taken to address climate change, I would 
highlight just a few: 
 We have doubled the Clean Energy Cess on coal, which very few countries 
have, and the Clean Energy Fund already has over 3 billion US dollars to be 
used for promoting clean technologies Page 2 of 5 
  Our National Solar Mission is being scaled up five-fold from 20,000 
megawatts to 100,000 megawatts. This will mean an additional investment of 100 billion dollars and savings of about 165 million tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. 
 We are releasing 6 billion US dollars in one go for intensive afforestation 
which will result in more carbon sinks. 
 We have allocated about 200 million US dollars for the ‘N ational Adaptation 
Fund’, setting-up of Ultra Mega Solar Projects, Ultra-Modern Super Critical 
Coal Based Thermal Power Technology, and the development of Solar Parks on canals. 
 Yet another initiative of the Indian Prime Minister is “100 Smart Cities’ with 
integrated policies for adaptation and mitigation to reduce the vulnerability 
and exposure of urban areas to climate change and also to improve their 
energy efficiency for which 1.2 billion US dollars have been allocated. 
 We have put in place stringent norms for cement industry. Our Action Plan 
for cleaning one of the longest rivers in the world, River Ganga will bring 
multiple benefits of pollution reduction and climate adaptation. We have also 
taken initiatives for protecting coastal, Himalayan, and forest areas. 
 We have initiated preparations to develop a National Air Quality Index and 
have launched a National Air Quality Scheme. 
Mr. President, While there is often a talk about changed reality, 1 in every 7 persons in the world 
today still lives in abject poverty. The number of poor people in the world is more 
than twice the combined population of Europe. All of them are in developing 
countries. 
We are determined to ensure developmen t to all these people and provide them 
with basic services of energy, water, sanitation, healthcare, education and 
employment. 
We in India are committed to protecting the interests of the poor. We did in it 
WTO for ensuring food security of our people. Page 3 of 5 
 The success of India’s endeavors in all thes e issues will also be critical for the 
success of the global effo rts for the achievement of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). 
India is also at the frontlines of facing the impacts of climate change. Shifting 
rainfall patterns, recurring floods, stronger cyclones and droughts or soil erosion are exacerbating the challenge of po verty eradication and necessitate the 
allocation of scarce national resources for preventing loss of human life. 
Despite our serious resource constraints, we are undertaking ambitious actions to 
undertake adaptation and mitigation actions, including through lowering of the energy intensity of our economic growth , increasing energy efficiency across 
sectors and making greater use of renewables. 
Mr. President, 
There are practical examples of how in the past we have managed to secure 
successful global cooperation to solve global problems. 
Joint collaborative research without IP R price-tag ensured ‘Green Revolution’ 
through hybrids, helped in making available drugs against HIV/AIDS and for 
finding God Particle. 
Why can’t this spirit of joint collab oration be summoned to address climate 
change? Why do we want to profit from disasters? 
Mr. President, 
We hope to put in place in Lima, th e stepping stones towards a post-2020 
agreement under the Convention that is comprehensive, balanced, equitable and 
pragmatic. 
It should be able to address the genuine requirements of the developing countries 
by providing them equitable carbon spac e to achieve sustainable development and 
eradicate poverty. 
The new agreement is under the Convention. Let us be clear, it is the 2
nd 
commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol that is ending in 2020, not the 
Convention. Page 4 of 5 
 Adherence to the principles and provisions of the Convention is the key. 
 As India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in the UN General Assembly in 
September this year, we should be honest in shouldering our responsibilities in 
meeting the challenges. The beautiful balance of collective action – the principles 
of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities - should form the basis of 
continued action. 
It is equally evident that developing countries could do more if finance, technology 
support and capacity building is ensured. This must be a key focus of the new 
agreement. 
Mr. President, 
Our ambition in the post-2020 period is directly linked with ambitious actions in 
the pre-2020 period by the developed countries, otherwise the poor people in 
developing countries will not get the carbon space to achieve sustainable 
development. 
If we believe that the global warming threat is real, then we must deliver on the 
agreed commitments as a matter of priority. 
It is important therefore for developed co untry parties to urgently fulfill their 
legal obligations in the pre-2020 period. They must scale up their mitigation 
ambition now and urgently fulfill their promises for providing financial and 
technological support to developing countries. 
Some announcements have been made by so me countries to contribute to the Green 
Climate Fund. However, the scale of these announcements remains far from what 
has been pledged. 
Mr. President, We firmly believe that the INDCs are to be ‘nationally determined’. We do not see 
any role for any ex-ante review in this process. 
The INDCs should include all elements in cluding mitigation, adaptation, finance, 
technology and capacity building. Page 5 of 5 
 Adaptation is a central and critical prio rity for developing countries to address 
Climate Change. The new post-2020 agreement should ensure a balance between mitigation and adaptation. The urgent need for adaptation must be fully reflected 
in the new agreement.  
Mr. President, 
India is committed and ready to play its part in the global fight against climate 
change. We look forward to successful conc l u s i o n t o t h e L i m a C O P . I n f a c t , w e 
hope that this COP will prove to be an exception to the rule and finish its work 
before on Friday 12th December itself! 
I thank you. 
***** 