Today I will not come here with a lengthy speech, there is no time for it!
Not only that We are not on track to achieve the Paris Agreement goals, but on the contrary that
We are on track for a climate catastrophe.
The 2021 Emissions Gap Report shows that with the current NDCs the global temperature right
now will rise to over 2,5 degrees Celsius.
I would like to recall the need to cut our global emissions by 45% in 2030 with respect to
2010, to keep the 1.5 goal alive.
And let´s be frank my fellows, keeping the 1.5 goal alive is a matter of survival, is a matter of
climate justice, of equity.
Yes, 2020 and 2021 have been a clear example of the pain, economic shocks and devastation that
the increase of every fraction of global temperature can generate. We have seen different
regions on the Earth affected by floods, wildfires, hurricanes, droughts, sea level rise, migrations,
the more we approach the tipping points, the more suffering we generate.
But today, at the same time that we are facing the COVID pandemic, the climate change and the
biodiversity crisis, the world is investing more in weapons! For me, this is immoral!
Is this the kind of legacy that We as leaders want to deliver?
Not me,
This is why my country, a tiny territory of 5 million people, like a small hummingbird, in the middle
of Central America, is taking decarbonization and nature conservation as building blocks for its
development model. We have made investments to ensure that our electricity remains produced
99% from renewable sources for seven years in a row now.. We have been investing in charging
stations for EVs so you can travel from the Pacific to the Caribbean in electric vehicles. We are
generating the enabling conditions in terms of policies and regulations to consolidate the green
hidrogen ecosystem in the country. And we want to continue giving clear signals to the markets,
and to the kind of foreign direct investments that we want to attract, and for this reason we are
promoting a bill to ban gas and oil exploration and exploitation in the territory, and at the same
time we are working to protect 30% of our oceans in this year. We know that this is the economy
of the future, that generates jobs and welfare for our societies.
But we are like a small hummingbird flying in the middle of a storm. We are trying to do our part,
but we need the big emitters to contribute with their share, to take bold actions, enhance their
NDCs and transform their commitments into real action.
It is clear that this transformation requires the mobilization of trillions of dollars, from public and
private sources. It is critical that the whole financial flows align to the Paris Goals, we cannot continue
investing and subsidising activities that harm nature and carbonize our societies.
But let me be clear, this is a time for extreme solidarity. We need a balanced approach for mitigation
and adaptation finance, We need more grant-based finance, and We need to improve the quality and
accessibility of these resources.
When we abolished the army in 1948 that was a leap of faith, now we need to abolish our
dependency on fossil fuels.
WE can be the change, as part of this generation of leaders and decision-makers.
WE can be the ones responsible to lead the way of the transformational change that needs to
happen in this decisive decade.
WE need to inspire everyone at all levels to push beyond ‘business as usual,’ demonstrating that
we have the knowledge, the technology, the resources, the will and the solidarity to achieve this
common goal.
WE must be brave - and intolerant to those that resist change.
Thank you very much