Page | 1 
 Statement delivered by Nepal on behalf of 
The Least Developed Countries (LDC) Group 
Opening of the High Level Segment COP-20 / CMP- 10 
Lima, Peru, 09/12/14 
 
 Mr. President. Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen 
Mr. President First allow me to convey my congratul ations 
on your assumption of the Presidency. I would like to take 
this opportunity to express our deep appreciation f or the 
incredible hospitality you and the people of Peru h ave 
shown to us. 
I have the honor to speak on behalf of the Least De veloped 
Countries Group, which represents the 48 poorest co untries 
in the world, extremely vulnerable to the impacts o f climate 
change. I speak for nearly one billion people who a re 
suffering, in some cases dying, due to a crisis tha t they did 
not create. 
Mr. President, it has become a daily part of our li ves to 
experience the startling increase in frequency and intensity 
of extreme weather events resulting from climate ch ange. 
Our farmers are finding it harder and harder to gro w crops. 
Our cattle are dying. Our glaciers and mangroves ar e fast 
disappearing. 
Unfortunately, despite 22 years of commitments to t aking 
action, global temperatures continue to rise alongs ide 
unprecedented greenhouse gas emissions. The IPCC re ports 
which we adopted, are unambiguously clear: unless w e 
immediately reduce emissions, we are on track for a 3-5 
degree rise in temperature. T here will be severe, pervasive 
and irreversible impacts on people and ecosystems – and Page | 2 
 some of our countries will completely disappear. In other 
words Mr. President, we are heading towards an 
unthinkable future. 
Mr. President, despite more than 500 decisions unde r this 
regime, we are still losing sight of the big pictur e. While we 
respect individual interests of parties and the nee d for fine 
and detailed negotiations, we should not forget tha t the 
window of opportunity for addressing the global cli mate 
crisis is rapidly closing. 
Mr. President, despite this, the LDCs are still opt imistic on 
achieving a climate neutral future before the end o f the 
Century. Our Group understands that, in our journe y of 
combating the climate crisis and reaching a climate neutral 
world, we must make the right choices here in Lima and next 
year in Paris. We have a historical opportunity to make 
things right through the new Paris Protocol. 
Mr. President, those choices include the following: first, all 
countries must undertake ambitious mitigation actio ns with 
short term quantifiable five year economy wide comm itment 
targets and long term mitigation commitments by dev eloped 
countries and other countries that are capable to d o so; 
second, we must agree on a mechanism for increasing 
ambition overtime; and third, we must agree on a pa thway 
for quantifiable, new, additional, predictable and sustainable 
financial resources for climate action in our count ries. 
Mr. President, we hope that 2015 Paris Protocol wil l 
reinforce legal parity between mitigation, adaptati on, loss 
and damage and means of implementation as well as 
transparency of action and support. Needless to say , the Page | 3 
 LDCs and our needs and priorities also warrant spec ial and 
dedicated treatment in the Paris Protocol. 
Mr. President, the LDCs call for the immediate 
replenishment of the LDCF. So far, the LDCF has rec eived 
less than 1 billion USD to implement our National 
Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs) which were 
meant to respond to our most urgent and immediate 
adaptation priorities. The LDCs welcome and appreci ate the 
support of contributing countries thus far, but we remain far 
from the amount needed to implement our NAPAs. We urge 
developed countries to continue considering the LDC F in its 
future funding allocations. The implementation of t he LDCs’ 
urgent and immediate NAPAs must be completed by 202 0. 
 
Mr. President, let me say that the reality of what LDCs face 
demands explicit, urgent, ambitious and concrete ac tions to 
bridge the current emissions gap and the financial gap. Let 
us get back to work with good intentions of speedin g up our 
work to enable us to finalise the most ambitious an d 
effective climate protocol in Paris next year. 
Mr. President, 
Please allow me to speak on behalf of South Asian 
Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) 
comprising of eight countries namely, Afghanistan, 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakista n, and Sri 
Lanka. 
Mr. President, South Asia is a home to almost a quarter of 
the world’s population and is endowed with vast wat er 
bodies and other natural resources. This region ha s also Page | 4 
 rich cultural and biological diversity. A sizable p ortion of 
ecology and biological diversity is under stress as well. 
Climate change has threatened our social and econom ic 
development. The region is becoming more and more 
vulnerable and is facing rising frequency and inten sity of 
floods, droughts, cyclonic storms and storm surges, 
landslides, glacial lake outburst floods, sea level rise and 
salinity intrusion. The IPCC reports reaffirm the l ikelihood of 
these severe, perverse and irreversible impacts. 
Noting that South Asia is particularly prone to cli mate 
change and related disasters, the 16 th SAARC Summit held 
in Thimphu, Bhutan, in 2010 adopted the ‘Thimphu 
Statement on Climate Change’ as a means to further 
regional cooperation and actions on climate change.  
Last month, the 18 th SAARC Summit held in Kathmandu, 
Nepal adopted the “Kathmandu Declaration” where 
theSAARC Heads of State or Government stressed on 
effective implementation of the SAARC Agreement on Rapid 
Response to Natural Disasters, SAARC Convention on 
Cooperation on Environment and Thimphu Statement on 
Climate Change, including taking into account the e xistential 
threats posed by climate change to some SAARC membe r 
states. 
The SAARC Leaders underlined the urgency for the gl obal 
community to arrive at a Protocol, another legal in strument, 
or an agreed outcome with legal force applicable to all by the 
end of 2015, based on the principles of Common but 
Differentiated Responsibility (CBDR), Respective 
Capabilities and Equity under the UNFCCC. Page | 5 
 Mr. President, any delay in action on climate chang e will 
only add to our costs and the requirement of Adapta tion. 
Therefore, Pre-2020 ambition and ratification of Ky oto 
Protocol 2 nd Commitment Period is the urgent need of the 
hour. 
We must work out a post-2020 framework that is base d on 
equity CBDR-RC and protects the poor and vulnerable 
people in South Asia from the disastrous impacts of climate 
change. 
 
Mr. President, please allow me, to speak on behalf of 
Nepal now. 
 
The mountainous country – Nepal – is most vulnerabl e to 
climate change. Our agriculture, forests, water and 
infrastructure sectors are greatly affected by the adverse 
effects of climate change posing food, water and en ergy 
insecurities. Climate-induced disasters have repeat edly 
claimed lives and properties. 
 
Moreover, disproportionate temperature rise in the 
Himalayas have caused glacier retreat, GLOF and fre quent 
avalanches. This phenomena has exposed black rock i n the 
beautiful ice caps, thereby seriously impacting on our 
tourism industry andon the lives and livelihoods of billions 
of people living around the Himalayas and downstrea m. Our 
development cost has increased by many folds and we must 
be compensated for this additional cost. 
 
In spite of our technical and financial limitations , Nepal has 
taken several policy, institutional and implementat ion 
measures, including implementation of NAPA prioriti zed 
most urgent and immediate adaptation actions. We ha ve Page | 6 
 introduced dedicated budget code to channel climate finance 
and preparing low carbon development strategy. 
 
The Climate Change Council, chaired by the Right Ho norable 
Prime Minister, ensures coordination and guidance a t the 
political level. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Considering the significant contribution that mount ains 
make and the climate change vulnerability they 
possesses,Nepal calls upon all Parties to develop a special 
Work Program on Mountains under the article 4.8 of the 
Convention to reduce the climate change vulnerabili ty and 
associated loss and damage. We believe such a work 
program will help to enhance our knowledge in bette r 
understanding mountain ecosystems and enable us to adapt 
to, and build resilience to climate change. 
 
Thank you Mr. President ! 
 
 
 
 