
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Guests, 
 
I would like first to take this opportunity to express my deepest appreciation 
to the Government of the United Arab Emirates for hosting and steering the 
work of COP28 , and indeed for its leadership on climate change . 
 
There is a n evident reason why the world’s attention is focused on our 
deliberations here in Dubai . The gravity of the situation regarding climate 
change calls for global action , for swift and resolute decisions, but also 
levelling up our ambition for the future of our planet and for the future 
generations . It is a global challenge that recognizes no borders, and can only 
be addressed through multilateral cooperation. 
 
Indeed, t he latest IPCC report of March 2023 details t he magnitude of 
changes in the climate system caused by anthropogenic emissions that is 
unprecedented in the history of humanity. Human -caused climate change is 
increasing both the frequency and the magnitude of extreme weather events 
in the whole world, devastate s our ecosystems and livelihoods, as well as, 
by consequence our societies and economies. For some parts of the world 
this is already an existential threat . 
 
Excellencies, 
 
Cyprus , situated at the heart of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle 
East, an area that is highly vulnerable to the impact of climate change , is 
experiencing these effects at higher levels than the global averages. 
 
During these last few years, we have witnessed higher frequency and extend 
of huge wildfires, droughts and floods, as well as pro longed periods of 
extreme heat -waves. 
 
These phenomena, have destroyed large parts of our forests , as well as 
unique ecosystems in our region, and have had a devastating impact on 
livelihoods, demanding urgent national and regional responses. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Deep emission cuts are necessary across countries, and all sectors of 
activity within our societies. 
 
It is clear that we must act urgently , decisively , and collectively.  
 
One example of a collective, regional action is the Eastern Mediterranean 
and Middle East Climate Change Initiative (EMME -CCI), initiated by Cyprus 
in 2019 in the context of recognizing the need for regional synergies to 
combat and mitigate the impact of climate change in the EMME region, in 
line with the goals of the Paris Agreement.  
 3 Last year in Sharm El Sheikh the Heads of States and Governments of 
countries belonging to the initiative1, adopted a political declaration as well 
as the Regional Action Plan. Currently, we are in the process of moving 
forward with its implementation. We initiated a dialogue and stocktaking with 
the countries that are part of the initiative to jointly undertake and move 
forward specific projects and actions to promote climate change mitigation 
and adaptation. 
 
[Furthermore, firmly believing in the necessity for regional and transnational 
cooperation, the Republic of Cyprus will host in April 2024 the First 
Commonwealth Ministerial Meeting on the Sustainable Use of the Ocean. 
The meet ings aim is to establish the principles, priorities and actions that will 
govern the future Commonwealth Ocean Declaration ].  
 
Dear friends, 
 
Global ambition must also substantially increase in line with the Paris 
Agreement to keep the 1.5ºC objective within reach. With this in mind, we 
need to successfully conclude the first Global Stocktake, with a determined 
and forward -looking outcome, crystalizing pathways and oppor tunities for a 
climate resilient and sustainable development. 

Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
In closing , I would like to acknowledge the importance of youth , of the 
generations that will come after us . These voices are speaking up, loud and 
clear, and expect us to deliver to them a future of hope. 
 
Let us heed that call, let us walk the path to climate neutrality, and let us 
come together to build resilient, sustainable, and green businesses, 
communities and countries for the future. 
 
Thank you. 
 