Excellencies. 
Ladies and Gentlemen. 
 
Much is being said and written about the time we are 
currently living in. 
 
A time of conflict and competition. 
 
Where new wars are testing us, while old conflicts 
continue to create despair for millions of civilians 
around the world . 
 
Where global tensions are reaching new highs while 
inflation, poverty, food shortage remain unsolved 
challenges. 
And in the midst of all this division , we are facing the 
biggest common challenge we have yet seen – climate 
change. 
 
A challenge that no country or continent can face 
alone. 
 
The easy thing would be to give up. To put off the 
difficult decisions. Because it requires too much. 
 
That can never be our answer. 
 
Therefore . We need to take upon us the responsibility. 
Show what we are capable of. How we can turn things 
around. When we choose to work together. 
 
And the developed countries and the biggest emitters 
have to lead the way. No country in the world have the right to say: “We are 
doing enough.” 
 
That also goes for my own country.  
 
We need to do more. 

 
At COP28 Denmark has three focus points: 
 
We are working for an agreement to phase out fossil 
fuels. 
 
Global targets to triple renewable energy and double 
energy efficiency . 
 And we need to do more for those countries that are 
hit the hardest by climate change.  
 
Particularly on their access to financing. That is a key 
pillar on climate action. 
 
That is why we contribute to mobilise more than 1 per 
cent of the 100 billion dollar pledge. 
 
And that is why Denmark welcomes the Abu Dhabi 
agreement on loss and damage . 
 
We are ready to contribute 25 million dollars to the 
new fund. 
 
And another 25 million dollars to other loss and 
damage activities . 
 
Now, allow me to share a few words on behalf of the 
Faroe Islands and Greenland. 
 
The Faroe Islands are a seafaring nation. 
 
We need to expand the efforts for energy transition in 
the maritime sector to include fishing vessels.  
 
Communities in Greenland experience some of the 
worst effects of climate change. Even though they 
have contributed the least . 
 
In the Arctic climate change is happening four times 
faster . 
 
On behalf of the people of Greenland , including the 
Inuit people . Let us act. 
 

Ladies and Gentlemen . 
 
COP28 is our chance to act. To keep the 1.5 degree 
target alive. And secure a livable planet for 
generations to come . 
 
We need to do more. 
 
Thank you. 