Your excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen … …. 
Dominicans are proud stewards of our pristine natural 
environment. 
We have protected Mother Earth and believe 
as our invincible Kalin ago ancestors did 
that everything in nature is connected 
and our fate as humans is tied to the trees, the water 
and the air that we breathe. 
I am a proud descendant of the Kalinago who fought 
to protect our islands from the onslaught of 
colonization 
We came close to extinction but courage and resilience 
sustained us 
We have a once in an intergenerational opportunity to 
take some brave decisions and tackle the climate 
crisis head on.  
Dominica has made its commitment absolutely clear. 
 
 Following near total destruction by Hurricane Maria in 
2017, 
our Prime Minister expressed the aspirations of his 
people to become the world’s first climate -resilient 
nation  
Though we have limited resources, we are throwing 
everything we have at achieving this. 
But, We are running out of time to reverse destructive 
environmental pr actices that are already having 
severe consequences for small island developing states  
That matters most ,  
not only for you here today , 
but for young people growing up in our small islands , 
and for future generations. 
Developed countries need to assist SIDS to become 
resilient and sustainable.  
There is a moral obligation to do so. 
Climate Justice demands it. 
Our young people now face an unprecedented threat. 
They will inherit what has been referred to as “ a triple 
jeopardy of: 
o crippling debt, 
o a degraded environment, and 
o frequent and destructive disasters”.  
 
SIDS have high levels of debt distress primar ily linked 
to responding to climate impacts, 
and currently there is no viable long -term debt 
reduction strategy ;  

 yet still , SIDS are receiving less than 2% of all climate 
finance. 
Almost all the Aichi Biodiversity targets for the last 
decade were missed.
Hurricanes are becoming more frequen t and more 
intense . 
Dominica and other small islands are seeking new 
opportunities . 
These lie in decarbonisation and renewable energy 
technologies, 
in more sustainable forms of tourism, 
and digitalisation of the economy . 
The young er generation is already onboard,  
they are seeking out opportunities to innovate . 
They are bold, less jaded by the past , 
but they are also driven by a desire to live on a healthy 
planet , 
to preserve the territorial and cultural integrity of 
their island homes in their lifetimes . 
Dominica has a clear plan in place to become resilient , 
but we cannot do this alone.  
The clock is ticking , and the challenge is immense , 
and we therefore call on our developed partner 
countries . 
Provide the support that SIDS need fo r our mitigation 
and adaptation efforts ; 
Help us achieve 1.5 to Stay Alive. 
I close with this nugget of wisdom from Chief Seattle, 
1854  

 “HUMANKIND HAS NOT WOVEN THE WEB OF LIFE. 
 WE ARE BUT ONE THREAD WITHIN IT. 
WHATEVER WE DO TO THE WEB WE DO TO 
OURSELVES. 
ALL THINGS ARE BOUND TOGETHER. ALL THINGS 
CONNECT”. 
 
Thank you 