Democratic Republic of Congo on Behalf of the Coalition for
Rainforest Nations
Joint COP, CMP, CMA, SBSTA, SBI and APA opening plenary
STATEMENT
Katowice, 2 December 2018
Mister President,
Madame Executive Secretary,
Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation,
Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice,
Charis of the ad-hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement,
The Democratic Republic of Congo has the honour to speak on behalf of
the 52 countries of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations.
Mr President, at the outset we support the statement made by the
distinguished delegate from Egypt on behalf of the Group of 77 and
China.
Last October, the IPCC special report reiterated the call for urgent and
immediate global action to limit the warming of our planet to 1.5 degree.
We are gathered here in Poland to take another fundamental step in the
fight against climate change. We are determined to make the Paris
Agreement work and get to action urgently.
To this aim, all workstreams of the Paris Agreement rulebook must be
finalized expeditiously so that Parties can focus on implementation and
finally get to work. All different pieces open in the various subsidiary
bodies must come together and the Paris Agreement become operative
through a set of ambitious and forward-looking rules.
Mr President, science also tells us that natural solutions can significantly
reduce global warming. Restoring our lands and wetlands and changing
the management of our forests could have a much bigger impact in
reducing global warming than previously imagined. We still remember
Warsaw 2013, a key milestone in the successful journey of REDD+,
now fully part of the Paris Agreement. COP24 must honour the REDD+
Warsaw Framework and the Paris Agreement rules be inspired and fully
consistent with this big achievement.
A robust accounting system ensuring the highest environmental integrity
must build the new climate change regime. All Parties and non-Parties,
and particularly those in the private sector, shall be encouraged to
continue to play a key role in fighting climate change and increase their
ambition and commitments in their forestry related climate actions.
Those actors must be fully embedded in the new climate regime, and
their actions consistent with all UNFCCC decisions and methodologies
and IPCC guidance.
Mr President, as REDD+ has revealed, the NAZCA must be retired,
reformed or replaced as it is not consistent with the Paris Agreement or
compliant with its transparency requirements.
Mr President, the implementation of the Paris Agreement should build
on existing successful stories such as the REDD+ mechanism under
Article 5. Clearly, the escalation of extreme weather events in all regions
of the world shows that urgent action is necessary and tropical forests
must play a key role now more than ever.
Scaled up and stable support by both the public and private sector
finance, including through the mechanisms under Article 6, should be
provided to rainforest nations.
Finally Mr. President, our Coalition is ready, more than ever, to support
you and work with you and all Parties, with the view to scale up
ambition and strengthen the new climate regime so that we can finally
solve the problem of climate change.
Thank you Mr President.