It is with great honour for me to present this statement on behalf of the head of 
state of the Kingdom of Eswatini , His Majesty King Mswati III , at this august 
gathering.  
Mr President, 
Allow me to congratulate the government of the Republic of Egypt for the excellent 
task of ensuring that we gather in this beautiful city of Sharm el -Sheikh and with a 
clear vision for implementation. 

Mr. President, We come to Sharm el -Sheikh with great exp ectations, and 
encouraged by your leadership in setting the theme of this COP to that of 
implementation. We have seen escalating impacts of climate change, despite all 
the meetings, agreements and commitments we have made over the past 30 years 
of negotiations under the UNFCCC. It is time our actions match our words. 
Unfortunately we have already lost a lot of time , with great disappointment, 
observed some develop ed countries not only fail ing to provide the promised US$ 
100 billion per year, but also swing -back to fossil fuels despite the Glasgow Pact. 
Failing to reduce Green House Gas emissions is setting the earth on an accelerated 
pathway of loss and damage, which is hard to reverse. 
We have come to a point where the urgency to mitigate and adapt is being 
overshadowed by the need to deal with the loss and damage we are already facing 
and experienced , hence the need for a Loss and Damage financing facility. 
We are happy though that the issue of loss and damage is now part of the discussion. We 
can no longer afford to reduce the need for the facility to a dialogue; and it’s 
financing should be additional to that of adaptation and mitigation.  
Mr. President, in Eswatini we are at the beginning of our rainfall season, yet we still 
have not recovered from last season’s disaster impacts which left some people 
dead others homeless and unprecedented damage to infrastructure, which also 
affected the country’s economic activities. This calls for immediate action, 
especially with respect to building resilience and support for responding to the 
different losses and damages. 
Finally, Mr. President, if we are to achieve our climate ambition leading to net zero 
emissions, we must leave no one behind. We believe it is time to consider how we 
can afford Taiwan an opportunity to contribute to the global vision of net zero 
emissions and do its part in the global fights against climate change. Eswatini calls 
on the UNFCCC to support Taiwan’s professional, pragmatic, and constructive 
participation in the UNFCCC, the Paris Agreement and associated mechanism. 
 
Thank you 
 
 
 