 1 Federated States of Micronesia National Statement 
High Level Resumed Summit 
15 November 2022 
COP27, Sharm el -Sheikh, Egypt 
 
Excellencies, honorable COP27 President, Sameh Shoukry, distinguished delegates, 
 
Please a llow me to begin by thanking the Government of Egypt and its people for their generous 
hospitality as hosts of this Conference, as well as the Secretariat of the UNFCCC for their 
unfaltering support. Your tireless efforts lay the foundation for outcomes at this meeting that can 
save lives and even entire nations. 
 
We are on the verge of losing control of the climate system. We are on the verge of warming the 
planet beyond what the natural system can survive, including beyond what ma ny humans can 
survive.  
 
We hear the phrase “climate eme rgency” so often, it has lost significance. I t’s clear that many 
who say or hear this phrase do not truly understand what is at risk. 
 
It’s not just the inhabitants of low-lying island s and coastal States who are at risk . It’s not just 
indigenous peoples i n the Arctic and the circumpolar North. It’s not just the forest peoples of the 
Amazon and other great forests of the world . 
 
It is all of humanity . It is ALL of the natural system. We are warming the planet so fast that the 
planet is starting to warm it self. The se self-reinforcing feedback loops are now triggering 
warming beyond what humans have produced . We are losing control… 
 
This accelerating warming will soon push us past a series of irreversible and catastrophic tipping 
points that are lurking just beyond the 1.5C guardrail the world will crash through within a decade 
or less.  
 
This is not the future we want. Not the most vulnerable of us. Not any of us. 
 
We waited so long to take serious climate action that we have 
 very little time left to take back control and slow warming.  
 
Today, the challenge comes down to two basic metrics - time and temperature. Temperature and 
time. Simply put: It is too hot, and we’ve left ourselves too little time.  
 
Using these metrics, we see that cutting CO2 on its own doesn’t slow warming at all for the first 
couple of decades, and then only a very modes t 0.1C at 2050. We have to decarbonize of course, 
and it starts paying off with more and more avoided warming by 2060 and beyond. But it can’t 
slow the feedbacks or avoid the tipping points we’ll hit in the next ten to twenty years. 
 2 We need climate solutions that can reduce the greatest amount of future warming in the shortest 
amount of time. The metrics of temper ature and time must guide our investments and drive 
capital towards solutions that slow warming the most in the near -term. 
 
Fortunately, there is a way to slow near -term warming: by cutting the non -CO2 short -lived 
climate pollutants. These “super pollutant s” are methane, black carbon soot, tropospheric ozone, 
and HFC refrigerants. 
 
If we cut the super pollutants aggressively, we can avoid at least 4 times more warming at 2050 
than cutting CO2 can provide. Four times more!  And w e can cut the rate of global warming by 
HALF and Arctic warming by two-thirds . These are the kinds of solutions that can help us take 
back control. 
 
Of course , we must cut both CO2 and the non -CO2. Thi nk of it as winning two races. The first race 
is a sprint to cut the non-CO2 super pollutants this decade and next. The victory prize is avoiding 
0.4C of warming by 2050. The second race is a marathon to decarbonize and shift to clean energy 
by 2050. 
 
The only way to keep the planet from climate chaos is to cut both CO2 and non -CO2 supe r climate 
pollutants as much as we can, as fast as we can. The n we’ll have a fighting chance to keep the 
planet and civilization safe. 
 
Several concrete paths to taking control of the crisis are : 
 
First, all countries who are eligible for the IMF’s RST sho uld apply to this $40 billion fund both to 
strengthen their response to COVID and to strengthen their resilience, including by cutting 
methane and the other super pollutants. It will not be possible to adapt to the coming climate 
chaos if we don’t slow nea r term warming by winning the sprint to cut the super pollutants in the 
next two decades. 
 
Second, all countries need to include methane and short -lived climate pollutants in their 
Nationally Determined Contributions. Develop a national methane mitigation plan, join the 
Global Methane Pledge if you have not, and incorporate methane and other SLCP reductions into 
national planning. This will open the door for support from institutions, public and private 
partners to fund methane mitigation.  
 
Third, the Wor ld Bank and all other development banks need to ensure that half of their lending 
goes to climate, and at least half of that to cut the super climate pollutants. 
 
Fourth, cutting methane is the single biggest and fastest way to slow warming and we need to 
put BIG money on this planet saving strategy. So, we also need a separate methane fund of many 
billions of dollars, and we need to put it into play fast if we’re going to cut methane enough this 
decade. This methane fund should include money for removing t he methane we’ve already 
emitted into the atmosphere..  3 
Fast action on the short -lived pollutants can ALSO avoid escalating Loss and Damage. The 
Santiago Network on L&D must become a powerful institution that offers emergency response 
in the form of reso urces, technology, and knowledge into the heart of climate crises. It is the life 
and death response of an emergency room for critical circumstances, and it is founded on the 
very principles of equity and fairness contained in the Convention. 
 
In addition to cutting SLCPs, there needs to be a more coherent and equitable approach to 
financing. Developed countries must deliver on the commitments of the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement to provide developing countries with financing for climate actio n. Deep cuts in 
emissions are the top priority, and yet the inaction of the past requires that more investment is 
made to support adaptation in developing countries. Within the next three years, d eveloped 
countries must at least double the collective provi sion of climate finance for adaptation from 
2019 levels . A massive injection of capital early on will build resilience, create jobs, and can 
reduce vulnerabilities to future impacts. It will be exponentially more costly to delay these 
investments, pushing the world further out of control. Investing in adaptation will have global 
economic, social, and security payoffs preventing future conflicts, reducing forced relocations, 
and strengthening societies so we can invest better in our own green development, ra ther than 
sink our limited resources in additional debt and emergency response. 
 
We call on all lending countries and institutions to put in place Debt -for-Climate initiatives that 
reduce the debt burden and channel funding where it is needed most. In add ition, here at COP27 
we urge donor countries to make m eaningful progress on the new collective quantified climate 
finance goal . 
 
Island nations are stewards of the world’s oceans. Oceans have helped absorb 90% of planetary 
warming and over 40% of anthropogenic CO2, this increased surface water temperatures, ocean 
acidification, lack of oxygen for marine wildlife, sea level rise, and intensified storms. It is too 
great of a price for the oceans and those who depend on them for survival to pay! Urgen t action 
must be taken to attend to the great ocean crisis – more research on solutions, care for 
ecosystems, and empowering ocean communities to survive and assist with ocean survival is 
critical. Further exploration of opportunities to leverage the suppo rt of the oceans should be 
prioritized for the coming decade, including increasing the role of the ocean as a carbon sink, 
prudent and equitable approaches to Blue Carbon, and leveraging the knowledge of ocean -based 
countries to increase and upscale action globally. 
 
 
Time and Temperature. Temperature and Time. We will soon lose control of the climate system 
if we do not take actions that reduce warming NOW. All of our lives depend on it. 
 
The islands, and indeed the rest of us too, are in a war that we’re losing. In the history of war, as 
General Douglas MacArthur said, defeat can be summed up in two words, “Too late.” Too late 
to understand our enemy. Too late to prepare. Too late to rally our allies. And as we mark the 
27th COP, with temperatures still rising, we are soon going to be “too late. ” 