 
 
Statement by Mr Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister of the Env ironment, Energy and Housing of 
Finland at COP23, Bonn, 16 November 2017 
 
 
 
Mr President, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I would like to thank Fiji’s presidency. We trust that you will lead us to a good outcome . We are 
with you . 
 
Finland fully aligns itself with the statement by the EU and its Member States. 
 
Mr President, 
 
The Paris Agreement is irreversible, unstoppable and truly global. Together with the Agenda 
2030 it paves our path towards a sustainable future. It’s time to implement . We don’t have time 
to waste. 
 
This is clear from the latest reports of the World Meteorological Organization and UNEP . I also 
look forward to the IPCC report on the 1,5 degree goal that must guide our further work. To 
safeguard this important work, Finland has doubled its contribution to IPCC this year. 
 
Finland is on track to achieve its 2020 emission reduction target. I am happy to announce that 
we have just deposited our ratification instrument for both the Kigali Amendment of the Montreal 
Protocol and the Doha Amendment of the Kyoto Protocol . But we are fully aware that more 
needs to be done. And we are taking further ambitious action : 
 
 We will phase out the use of coal for energy by 2030 . 
 We will halve the use of fossil oil and the CO 2-emissions from road transport by 2030. 
 We will do this by advancing renewable energy, electric vehicles and advanced biofuels 
as well as enhancing energy -efficiency. 
 We are committed by our Climate Change Act to a long -term goal of at least 80 percent 
reduction by 2050 . We will enhance our carbon sinks. 
 With these measures we aim to be carbon neutral by 2045. 
 
 Cities, as producers of 70 percent of the world´s greenhouse gases, have a crucial role in 
implementing the P aris Agreement. The potential of energy savings for exam ple from the 
building sector is huge and remain s largely untapped. I encourage all cities and towns to 
develop their own c limate adaptation and mitigation plans – many have already done this .  
 
Mr President , 
 
In the Arctic, temperature is increasing twice as fast as elsewhere. The rising temperature will 
have serious consequences for the Arctic ecosystems and societies, indigenous peoples and 
local communities. The changes in the Arctic will not stay in the Arctic, but will have global 
consequences. F or example , these changes will accelerate global sea level rise and impact 
weather far away . 
 
These dramatic changes are happening now, in our time, not somewher e in the future. W e need 
to be quicker and more ambiti ous. A key task is also to reduce the emissions of black carbon. If 
we tackle these emission s globally , it will yield results very quickly . And we have the means to 
do this. 
 
I am proud to be here with Finnish municipal leaders, businesses, civil society, youth and our 
indigenous people, the Sámi . In Finland, we work closely with the Sámi Parliament in 
formulating our climate positions and policies . We expect that the Indigenous Peoples' and 
Local Commun ities' Platform become s a forum where Parties and indigenous peoples can learn 
from each other and tackle this challenge together. 
 
Mr President, 
 
Climate finance to developing countries is essential for achieving the Paris goals. In October 
Finland set up a joint climate fund with the International Finance Cooperation. The 114 million 
euro investment FUND will support renewable and clean energy solutions mainly in the poorest 
developing countries. The Finland -IFC blended finance for climate program is a new and 
innovative way to create markets and mobilize private inv estments in developing countries. 
 
Let me conclude by stressing that - as the Fijian Presidency has showed us - we are all in this 
canoe together. Thank you . 