STATEMENT BY PRIME MINISTER PETTERI ORPO, FINLAND 
COP28 
 
Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I would like to thank the United Arab Emirates for hosting this crucial event. 
We need multilateralism now more than ever to take effective action against 
climate change and to ensure food and energy security. 
 
The science is clear: we are not on track to limit climate change to 1.5 
degrees. Global warming has already reached 1.2 degrees , causing 
widespread damage on all continents . Ongoing wars and violence in different 
parts of the world are only aggravat ing the impacts. 
COP28 marks the culmination of the first -ever Global Stocktake. It is up to us 
now to act with urgency and determination, and make clear political 
commitments to put us on track . 
 
Finland rema ins committed to supporting develo ping countries in their climate 
action . I would like to congratulate the esteemed host of this conference, the 
UAE, for the landmark agreement on the new fund to respond to loss and 
damage , and your generous pledge . It is crucial to expand the donor base for 
climate funding, to include more countr ies on a voluntary basis. Finland 
stands ready to support the new fund with 3 million euros. In addition, we 
underline the continued importance of other funding mechanisms, including 
those supporting Early Warning Systems. 
 We must also ensure that all financial flows are in line with the Pari s 
Agreement and need to mobili se more private funding. In this, the Coalition of 
Finance Ministers f or Climate Action continues to play a key role. 
 
To put us on the right track to reach the Paris goals , the most crucial thing is 
a rapid clean energy transition away from fossil fuels . A just transition can 
help create new businesses and jobs, and better opportunities for people 
everywhere . 
 
To enable th e transition, we should agree on global targets for r enewables 
and ener gy efficiency . These targets need to be accompanied by concrete 
steps towards phasing out fossil fuels and subsidies that support t heir use, 
and recogni sing the role of other carbon -free technologies.  
Governments must work together within the multilateral system, bu t we also 
need broad collaboration with civil society and the private sector.  
In Finland, we have set the ambitious goal to be carbon neutral by 2035 and 
carbon negative soon after that. This goal can only be reached with strong 
public -private cooperation. I am happy that Finnish c ompanies can also offer 
a variety of practical solut ions to help reach carbon neutrality globally. We 
want Finnish companies to expand their carbon handprint, meaning the 
positive climate impact that their products can have, and stand ready to share 
our expertise globally . My Government is also committed to ensuring the 
preservation of natural capital as part of a responsible economic policy , and 
we will work to halt the loss of biodiversity. Our aim is that others around the 
world can utili se our expertise related to positive nature handprints i n addition 
to carbon footprints. 
 
Mr President, We must show the world that we stand behind the commitments we made in 
Paris . Let’s make sure this COP succeeds in getting us back on track for 1.5 
degrees .   
Thank you. 