 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA 
 
 
STATEMENT 
 
BY 
 
HER EXCELLENCY DR. ISATOU NJIE -SAIDY 
THE GAMBIA’S VICE PRESIDENT 
 
ON BEHALF OF HIS EXCELLENCY, PRESIDENT JAMMEH 
 
AT THE 
 
JOINT HIGH -LEVEL SEGMENT 
 
OF THE 
 
TWENTY -SECOND SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE 
PARTIES OF THE UNFCCC (COP 22), 
 
TWELFTH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE 
PARTIES OF THE UNFCCC SERVING AS THE MEETING 
OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL (CMP 12) 
AND THE 
 
FIRST SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES 
OF THE UNFCCC SERVING AS THE MEETING OF THE 
CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE PARIS AGREEMENT 
(CMA1) 
 
7thTO 18thNOVEMBER, 2016 
MARRAKECH, MOROCCO 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Honourable Ministers, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I bring you greetings from all Gambians , particularly , His Excellency 
The President of the Islamic Republic of The Gambia, Sheikh Professor 
Alhaji Dr. Yahya A.J. J Jammeh, Bab ilimansa. 
 
My delegation and I , deeply appreciate the warm welcome, generous 
hospitality and impressive facilities and co urtesies accorded by His 
Majesty King Muhammed VI and the Government and the people , of 
the Kingdom of Morocco.  
 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Honourable Ministers, 
 
COP -21, and the adoption of the new, universal and legally -binding 
Paris Agreement , to the UNFCCC , mark s a milestone , in the history 
of international climate change negotiations. 
 
In this regard you may wish to note that The Gambia has ratified the 
Paris Agreement , and the Doha Amendment , to the Kyoto Protocol , on 
the 5th of October, 2016 and have deposited the instrument of 
ratification for the Paris Agreement at the UN . By so doing the Gambia 
proudly join s the member states that have agreed, signed and ratified the Paris Agreement to date. 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Honourable Ministers , 
One primary objective of the Paris Agreement is to hold global average 
temperature rise , to well below 2OC, above pre -industrial levels, and 
pursue efforts , to limit the increase to 1.5OC. The Gambia aligns itself 
with these global efforts and as a country we are encouraged that COP 
22 in Marrakech is about Climate action . 
 
However w ithout tangible and meaningful mitigation actions , to limit 
greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, adapting to the 
adverse effects of climate change , will become impossible, particularly , 
for the most vulnerable countries. 
 
Thus the Gambia calls for and encourages that there be no slow down 
nor back sliding on the momentum , in global climate change adaptation 
and mitigation as is crystallized in the Paris Agreement . In this way it 
is the Gambia ’s view that the Paris agreement would fulfill and meet 
the aspirations and well being of all particularly the most vulnerable . 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Honourable Ministers, 
Thus Gambia welcome s the decisions adopted thus far on adaptation, 
mitigation, finance, technology transfer , and capacity building relat ing 
to Least Developed Countries (LDCs), Small Island Developing States 
(SIDS ) and Africa . 
Here in Marrakech , as with COP 7 earlier held her e, we should ensure the implementation of the COP 21 decisions , with adequate and 
tangible support to the LDCs, SIDS , and Africa, through the provision 
of adequate and reliable finance, capacity building , and technology 
transfer. 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Honourable Ministers, 
My country, The Gambia , as you may know is among the smallest 
countries in Africa , and its economy , is highly dependent on rain -fed 
Agricu lture and two-thirds of our c apital city Banjul , is located 0.5 
meters above sea l evel, hence making The Gambia , vulnerable to 
unfavorable climate change such as sea -level rise. 
 
Thus our country could be vulnerable to the negative effects of climate 
change with implications for our economy, tourism sector, food 
security , resilience, and the lives and livelihoods of coastal as well as 
rural communities. 
 
As result of its vulnerabilities and as sign of its efforts and commitment 
to take on the challenges of Climate Change , the Gambia through its 
2015 Intended Nationally Determined Contribution ( INDC ), commits 
to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions from key sectors of its 
economy , by 44.4% in 2025 and 45.4% in 2030. 
 
Furthermore we have as a country finalized , our National Climate 
Change Policy . On combating , sea-level rise , and the associated adverse effects 
manifest in coastal erosion , the Gambia is implementing an LDC, 
UNDP and GEF project aimed at building the resilience of vulnerable 
communities both on coastal and inland areas as well. 
 
In addition, the Gambia in its match to ensuring climate change actions 
in key sectors , is implementing adaptation projects , under its National 
Adaptation Program of Action ( NAPA ). These include climate change 
early warning s ystems , and Coastal Protection and Resilience Building , 
of Vu lnerable Coastal Communities. It also includes c ommunity -based 
sustainable dry land forest management , and adapting agriculture to 
climate change. With requisite support , we are ready to take on climate 
change challenges and implement projects , as contained in our National 
Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA ). 
 
The Gambia also recently launched a UNEP supported initiative called 
EBAFOSA (Eco -System Based Adaptation for Food Security 
Assembly) in order to harmonize food security, water, environmental 
and climate change policies.  
 
The Gambia is also an active Member States of the Africa Risk 
Capacity an in novative solutions to address issues associated wit h the 
impact of climate change aimed at improv ing African capacities to 
better plan, prepare and respond to extreme weather events and natural 
disasters . Thus the ARC is a key opportunity that we as country 
encourages other countries t o pursue as this approach seek s to help 
African governments with home grown innovative solutions . 
 
From the foregoin g, and having been encouraged by potential for 
overcoming the challenges of climate change, t he Gambia urges all 
international partners, bilateral and multilateral, to provide full support 
to LDC countries, in line with the Istanbul Programme of Action 
(IPoA) , for LDCs , thus ensuring low emissions , and climate resilient 
development. 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Honourable Ministers, 
 
Finally 
We look forward to the discussions and launching of the LDC 
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Initiative (REEEI ), for 
Sustainable Development. 
 
May Allah SWT c ontinue to protec t planet earth, its Flora and Fa una 
and humanity at large . 
 
I thank you for your attention. 
 