1 
   
 
STATEMENT 
BY 
HIS EXCELLENCY BADARA A. JOOF   
VICE PRSESIDENT OF THE GAMBIA  
AT THE 
LEADERS’ SUMMIT OF THE HIGH -LEVEL SEGMENT 
OF THE 
TWENTY -SEVENTH CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES OF 
THE UNFCCC (COP 27) 
 
 
6th NOVEMBER TO 18 NOVEMBER 2022 
SHARM EL SHEIK, EGYPT  
  
 
       THE REPUBLIC   OF THE GAMBIA 2 
 Excellencies, Distinguished delegates, on behalf of my President, His Excellency Mr. 
Adama Barrow, I extend sincere gratitude and appreciation to the Government and People 
of the Arab Republic of Egypt for hosting COP27 and for inviting The Gambia to attend the 
World Leaders Summit, to seriously discuss the climate crisis confronting the world, 
particularly the developing countries. 
The Gambia is on track to meet the SDG 13 on climate action. Our NDC2, was 
acknowledged to be ambitious and in compliance with Article 4, paragraphs 6 and 19 of 
the Paris Agreement. The Gambia has also submitted its strategy for becoming climate 
neutral by 2050 – called The Gambia`s Long -Term Climate -Neutral Development Strategy 
2050 (LTS) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
available for viewing on their website. The LTS focuses on the country`s 5 key greenhouse 
gas emitting sectors on both mitigation and adaptation actions and, requires an estimated 
4 billion USD for implementation now against 2050. 
To support the unconditional targets in our NDCs, my government has increased 
alloca tions in our national budget and also working with the private sector and 
development partners, such as, the World Bank, EU and others to address climate change, 
both in the areas of adaptation, resilience, mitigation and renewable energy. By 2025, 
The Gam bia will have more than 30MV solar plant to reduce the cost of buying and using 
fossil fuel. 
The Gambia being a small and low -lying country, bisected by the River Gambia, our 
greatest risk is the sea level rise, posing potentially a greater existential thr eat to the 
country, especially the capital, Banjul. his year’s floods and the windstorms of last year 
caused enormous destruction to live and livelihoods, putting much pressure on our already 
mega national budget and achieving the SDGs. 
Pledges of financia l support alone are not sufficient, we need practical financial 
commitments, easily accessible without much procedural difficulties. Like many LDCs, The 
Gambia’s negligible contribution to the global emission of Green House Gas (GHG) is less 
than 0.01%, bu t still took a lead to respond to the global call for action to prepare an 
ambitious NDC2 meeting the Paris Agreement’s temperature goal of 1.50oC. This is a clear 
indication of the highest level of political will and commitment. 3 
 We Join others to call on developed countries to make good on their promises on climate 
financing. Developed nations that have contributed more to the accumulation of 
greenhouse gas emission, should take a leading responsibility to finance the climate crisis 
with reference to the P aris Agreement, Article 2, We now need committed actions for 
urgent implementation to be make here in Sharm El Sheik, COP27. 
Thank you 