1 
 Statement by H.E. Mr. Irakli Garibashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia at the 
Sharm El -Sheikh Climate Implementation Summit UN Climate Change 
Conference - COP27  
 
Dear President, 
 
Excellences,  
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I am honored to address you on behalf of my country, Georgia, and thank the 
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the leadership as our host and for 
the tireless efforts in the preparation of this very important event.  
 
Dear colleagues,  
 
Climate change has become a challenge for our generation and we , as leaders 
of our countries , are responsible to find a solution for the sake of humanity 
and our future generations. There is no time for deliberation, we need swift 
and result -oriented actions. 
 
In this spirit, Georgia is considering turning the Paris commitments into 
credible delivery and increasing the ambition of its Nati onally Determined 
Contributions in 2025. We have developed a very comprehensive Georgia’s 
2030 Climate Change Strategy and sub sequent Action Plan to further facilitate 
the ambitious agenda for climate change mitigation. 
 
Additionally , Georgia, with its Long -Term Low Emission Development 
Strategy targets to reach Carbon Neutrality by 2050 with unifying national 
efforts and with international support.  
  
Georgia has one of the cleanest grids; 85% of our electricity comes from 
renewable sources, and further enhancing the share of renewable energy is a 
strategic priority for my country. Additionally, we continue to support further 
non-traditional renewable energy development projects such as wind, 
hydrogen, geothermal and other means of s ustainable sources. 
 2 
 I am ascertained that a robust framework for increasing the resilience of our 
count ries will be an outcome of our negotiations in Sharm El -Sheikh . 
However, these efforts can only be effective if the perspectives and contexts 
of develo ping countries in all regions are considered. 
 
Equitable geographical representation, sovereign equality, and dignity of all 
its Member States is a fundamental principle of the UN's work and of this 
Body. This principle - to “leave no one behind” is echo ed in the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainab le Development. Therefore, achieving Equitable Geographic 
Representation in the Composition of Constituted Bodies under the 
Convention remains among our highest priorities at this COP.  
 
In conclusion, I encourage and re mind all our colleagues that success cannot 
be achieved alone; only with joint efforts , we will be able to reap the rewards. 
So let’s together translate the outcomes of COP 27 into prompt climate action.  
 
Thank you!  
 
 