Statement by Ms. Nino Tkhilava, Head of Environment and Climate Change 
Department of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Agriculture of 
Georgia at the UN Climate Change Conference – 
COP 25 on December 11, 2019 in Madrid, Kingdom of Spain 
 
Madam President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
It is my great pleasure to represent Georgia at COP25 , and I have the 
privilege of expressing my sincere gratitude to the Chilean Presidency for its 
leadership and huge efforts in prepar ing for COP 25 an d to the Government 
of the Kingdom of Spain and its people for their generous hospitality. 
 
This year has been full of evidence of climate change impacts to our planet. 
We are all witnesses of the increased speed of the ocean ice melting and the 
increased frequency and severity of forest fires. In Georgia, glacial melting at 
the Great Caucasus range increases the fragility of our unique mountainous 
ecosystems, resulting in a devastating impact to Georgia’s mountain -dwelling 
population and huge economic loss es for the region. 
 
The special report of the I PCC makes the urgent need for immediate action 
to combat climate change alarmingly clear. Yet higher -impact action is 
needed to reduce emissions if we are to achieve the temperature goals of the 
Paris Agreemen t. 
 
Before the end of 2020 , our common responsibility is to communicate 
increased ambition through our updated NDCs and long -term strategies on 
low-emission development pathways. 
 
Georgia is updating its NDC in parallel with the elaboration of the country’ s 
Climate Action Plan for the period of 2021 to 2030, to ensure that Georgia’s 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions by 2030 are kept at 40% below the level recorded 
in 1990. This shows that developing countries, such as ourselves , are capable 
of trying new ideas and s etting ambitious goals . 
 Achieving Georgia’s national climate change mitigation targets requires us to 
address relevant sectoral priorities and challenges. To this end, Georgia’s 
CAP aims to identify a low carbon development pathway covering seven 
economic sectors. Georgia also believes that the power of markets can help 
us achieve our collective goals under the Paris Agreement. Here at COP 25, 
we have an opportunity to reach a common vision on carbon market 
development . 
 
This COP provided us with a similar opportunity to finalize functional rules 
related to the enhanced transparency framework. We encourage all Parties 
to continue to work toward consensus so that we may implement this key 
feature of the Paris Agreement, as we have all agreed, no lat er than COP26 
in Glasgow. 
 
We must therefore use this COP to further clarify our operational 
understanding of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and 
Damage, the implementation of response measures, and how to mainstream 
gender to effectively imple ment climate policies at the national and 
international levels , understanding that these efforts cannot be effective 
unless the perspectives of developing countries in all regions of the world are 
considered. We must therefore also ensure that our efforts always take into 
account the principle of equitable geographical representation . 
 
Now, let me conclude by expressing my hope that our efforts here, in 
Madrid, will represent a significant step forward in the protection of our 
Planet for ourselves and for future generations. 
 
Thank you very much . 