 
 
Statement by H.E. Ekaterine GRIGALAVA, Deputy Minister of 
Environment and Natural Resources Protection of GEORGIA 
at the UN Climate Change Conference ‘COP23’, Bonn  
 
Excellences , 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
On behalf of Georgia, allow me to express my gratitude to our host, the Fijian Presidency and 
the Government of Germany for providing a generous support to the small island developing 
country to host the 23rd meeting of Conference of Parties of the UNFCCC for the first time in 
history. Indeed, this presidency defines the importance of taking urgent action to combat 
climate change. This year’s tragic events, related to the natural disasters, forcing Antigua and 
Barbuda to declare Barbuda as uninhabitable island, does strike us al l with thoughts that 
more action is needed on the ground to build stronger resilience ensuring that no nation has 
to face similar challenges in the future. 
Georgia has ratified the Paris Agreement this year that entered into force for the country on 
the 7th of June. With this decision the country expressed its high commitment towards the 
establishment of a new and robust multilateral system that builds on the experience and 
decades of work of the experts, scientists and policy makers. Joining the Paris Ag reement is 
a significant step towards the establishment of a national legal framework that enables 
mitigation and adaptation actions on national, regional and local level. In this regard, it is 
worth mentioning that Georgia will soon adopt the Energy Effic iency Action Plan and has 
already initiated working on the Renewable Energy Action Plan. The country is committed 
to take significant steps in agricultural sector, building on the principles of climate smart 
agriculture and resilient crop production. The c ountry is facing challenges in ensuring both, energy and food security, and hence, investing and taking action within these sectors is 
indeed a step that would also serve the country in achieving its sustainable development 
goals. Georgia has received Read iness support program from the Green Climate Fund, which 
delivers on the elaboration of a country program as well as on the support in the process of 
the accreditation of the national agency. This will provide the country with the opportunity 
to design pro jects that would entail transformational change and of the quality to receive a 
financial support from the GCF. On the local level the Covenant of Mayors has become a 
significant tool to stimulate the local action. We have witnessed the major cities transf orming 
their public fleet into more sustainable vehicles such as CNG or electric busses. The new 
roads provide space for cycling and new measures are taken to encourage purchasing of 
hybrid and electric cars. The metro line has also been extended and promo ted as a 
sustainable mode of transportation. 
As with regards to the other international efforts, Georgia has started its internal procedures 
to finalize the ratification of Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol as well as the Kigali 
Amendment to the Montrea l Protocol. The country also envisages the elaboration of a long 
term low carbon development strategy for 2050 in the near future.  
And we are deeply honored and pleased to have acceded to membership in the 
Environmental Integrity Group within the UNFCCC. We sincerely thank each member Party 
in the EIG for placing their faith in our progressive principles, contributions, and 
perspectives. We look forward to contributing great value to the EIG for many years to come, 
and using this new partnership to increa se our effectiveness in promoting an ambitious 
approach to climate action as we move forward. 
We all are aware that the upcoming year will be of a great significance as we need to progress 
on the Paris Work Program and ensure that the Talanoa Dialogue deli vers the right messages 
to the global society. Additionally, the Parties will have to work hard to advance on the 
Robust Implementation Guidelines and we strongly support the vision that we need to move 
beyond statements, as the time is very limited and we don’t want to lose the global 
momentum established at COP21 in Paris. 
 This year we have all witnessed disastrous events across the globe, Georgia itself suffered 
from unprecedented forest fires, forests that are home for the endemic species typical only 
to this region. This not only has threatened our main carbon stock but also the whole 
ecosystem and biodiversity. This highlights, that the climate change has a huge influence on 
each and every sector, resulting in a negative chain reaction and in the en d, impacting the 
most vulnerable in the first place. With this in mind, I would like to wish you all a successful 
negotiation process and express my confidence that with the Fijian Presidency, that aims to 
ensure inclusive, participatory and transparent di alogue building on empathy and decision 
making on collective good, will be able to effectively direct us towards our deliverables for 
this year and set a clear pathway how to progress in the upcoming years towards the targets 
of the Paris Agreement and Ag enda 2030 . 
I thank you. 
 