Statement by Ms. Nino Tandilashvili, Deputy Minister of Environmental 
Protection and Agriculture of Georgia at the UN Climate Change Conference 
‘COP24’, Katowice  
Dear President, 
Excellencies , 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
It is my great pleasure to represent Georgia at COP24 and have a privilege to 
express my sincere gratitude to the Polish Presidency for its superb leadership, 
and to the people of Poland for their generous hospitality. 
The IPCC special report on the impac ts of global temperature rise of 1.5 °C above 
pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways 
published prior to COP24 represents a strong signal for the urgent need to 
enhance the global response to the threat of climate change a nd to achieve 
sustainable development. 
In this regard, Georgia’s decision to update its NDC by 2020 demonstrates our 
commitment to increasing our level of ambition in combating climate change and 
further limiting our greenhouse gas emissions. Georgia will achieve its enhanced 
low carbon trajectory through increased reliance on renewable energy sources 
and a further reduction in the demand for fossil fuel in the country. 
I am proud to report that my country has already provided incentives toward both 
of thes e aims. For example, households and small scale businesses can now 
transfer electricity produced by PV systems back to the grid. We have also 
completely eliminated import duties for E -vehicles and reduced import duties on 
hybrid vehicles to encourage priva te citizens and business to choose low -emission 
transportation options. 
In Georgia, we continue our work to mainstream climate -smart agriculture and 
sustainable forestry management practices to reduce emissions from agricultural 
sector and increase the CO 2 removal capacity of country’s forests. In recent years, with the support of our partner countries and international 
organisations, we have begun delivering new technologies and advancing our 
technical capacities by implementing pilot mitigation projects t o demonstrate the 
potential of green technology and to encourage the decoupling of economic 
development from carbon reliance. Hence, I would like to use this opportunity to 
express Georgia’s gratitude to our partners that continue to support us in our 
transition to a more resilient and low carbon future. 
This support is particularly appreciated in light of the catastrophic climate -related 
events Georgia has been experiencing in the Caucasus mountain region. These 
events include flashfloods and mudslides ins tigated by accelerated glacial melting, 
which is having a devastating impact on Georgia’s mountain -dwelling population 
and causing huge economic losses for the region. The support we have received 
and the actions we have taken are essential steps in trying to limit these 
disastrous impacts. But we know further action is needed, at both the national 
and global levels. 
Excellencies , dear colleagues, 
Let me point out that recently Georgia adopted an inter -governmental, multi -
disciplinary climate policy process , requiring the coordination of relevant policies 
by the inter -ministerial committee on climate change with an aim to upscale 
climate governance in the country and underpin the implementation of our NDC. 
Actions such as these demonstrate Georgia’s commitme nt to a holistic approach 
to climate governance and to integrating climate awareness in all governmental 
sectors. 
COP24 builds on three years of momentum and has the potential to leap forward 
by giving the climate community clear, transparent, and understa ndable rules for 
implementing the Paris Agreement. I would like to thank all Parties here for the 
tremendous joint work in keeping up this momentum. I have confidence that we 
will keep that momentum as we bring COP 24 to a successful conclusion. 
Thank you . 
 