President,
Colleagues,
Ladies and gentlemen,

| would like to begin by thanking our hosts for the excellent organisation and the warm
welcome.

With the early ratification of the Paris Agreement, we, the international community, have
sent the clear message to industry and society throughout the world:

The global transformation to a greenhouse gas-neutral and climate-resilient world is now

irreversibly underway.

Our focus is now on implementation.

And therefore | am delighted that the Moroccan Presidency chose “Action and
Implementation” for COP 22.

This is precisely what we need now.

We have to turn the text of the agreement into concrete actions.

This is just as ambitious as the process leading to the agreement itself.

| am sure we are all discovering this first hand, for example, when negotiating about
climate action with colleagues in other ministries.

The German sociologist Max Weber once commented that politics is like drilling through
hard boards. To be precise, he said that “politics is a strong and slow boring of hard
boards. It takes both passion and perspective.”

That is exactly what climate ministers need at the moment: passion and perspective.

| adies and gentlemen,

et nle and

To advance the implementation process, | will particularly advocate:

- that Germany resolutely implements the ambitious Climate Action Plan 2050, which
the German government formally adopted on Monday,

- and that we support other countries. Together with Morocco we are launching a
new global NDC Partnership here at COP22.
Developed and developing countries and international organisations will work

together.

| also intend to present a convincing plan with all other donors on how we can mobilise the

400 billion dollars of climate finance by 2020.
Some donors are already delivering on their pledges less than a year after Paris.

Germany will double its public climate financing from two to four billion euros by 2020.
Additional public funding together with private funding means: Germany is contributing a

fair share.

We are also supporting a range of climate action initiatives such as the Africa Renewable
Energy Initiative (AREI) and ecosystem adaptation in Caribbean island states.

In this way, Germany is also demonstrating that even more can be done.

Climate action, energy and the implementation of the Paris Agreement will therefore be

key issues of our G20 Presidency.

Thank you.

