1 | P a g e 
 President of COP 22 
Distinguish delegates 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
1. It is pleasant to join COP22 once again as we continue to take stock and to 
advance our collective efforts to tackle global climate change. 
 
2. The sight s and sounds of the moments that led to the adoption of the 
momentous Paris Agreement and Sustainable development goal are still 
fresh in our minds. We held our hands high, we demonstrated our resolve 
as partners of progress, we showed the rest of the world that with we can 
make pr ogress together. I am sure after 24 months, a honey moon is over 
and the hard work start must earnestly . 
 
3. Mr. President, we need to build on the political momentum and good will. 
We no longer have the luxury of time for debates while the ravages of 
climat e change continue to put lives, societies and economies at risk. To us 
in Ghana we are convinced that taking climate action head -on makes good 
economic sense ; brings positive financial returns; transform societies; and 
change lives . The more we delay, the more we will pay in few years to come. 
We can promote economic growth, eradicate extreme poverty, and improve 
people’s health and well -being by acting today . 
 
4. Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ghana attaches serious ness to climate 
change because it poses significant threat to our national interest. That is 
reason why we are already taken steps to address it decisively. We 
introduced a number of policy reforms to : (a) tackle deforestation ; scaling -
up renewable energy; promote climate smart agriculture in vulnerable 
landscape; promote sustainable transport and waste management in cities, 
get businesses involved and to educate the Ghanaian people.  
 
 
 2 | P a g e 
 5. We have also taken steps to align development policies to sustainable 
developm ent consideration s. In this regard, we undertake regular 
assessment of their national policies through such structured arrangements 
such as “strategic environmental impact assessment” (EIAs/SEAs) . 
 
6. The implementation of the se policy packages are already yielding positive 
results in enhancing resilience, reducing GHG emissions and at the same 
time improving standard of living. What we strive to do is to sustain 
momentum and further increase the scale of these actions in order to put 
the country on a sustainable development pathway. Ghana’s nationally 
determined contributions (NDCs) is the vehicle to drive the country’s climate 
ambition programme. 
 
7. Mr. President, Ghana wishes to reiterate the critical need for all Parties to 
take ambitious c limate a ction. This is the surest way to undergo the 
transition and to secure the climate resilient low carbon future we all wish 
for in sustainable manner. 
 
8. We also call for an effective global support to assist developing countries to 
assess, the transition and implementation of climate action and their 
impacts. Although the work of the adhoc technical expert groups has been 
useful but not sufficient under the scenario on increased ambition over time 
as dictated by the Paris Agreement.  
 
9. Ladies and Gentlemen, as we put ourselves in readiness to start to 
implement to our climate action we seek partnerships. The kind of 
partnerships we seek are in areas of investments and technical cooperation 
in resilient landscape, scale -up of renewable energy and f uel diversification 
for electricity supply. 