1 
 NATIONAL STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC 
OF GHANA, 
NANA ADDO DANKWA AKUFO -ADDO, 
AT THE WORLD LEADERS’ SUMMIT OF THE 27TH CONFERENCE 
OF PARTIES (COP27), ON TUES DAY, 8TH NOVEMBER 2022, IN 
HOSTED BY THE UNFCCC AND THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT , 
IN SHARM EL -SHEIKH , EGYPT. 
 
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt 
Excellenc ies 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
I thank President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, the Government and people of the 
Arab Republic of Egy pt for the warmth of their hospitality to the Ghanaian 
delegation since our arrival in this ancient , historic country, and express 
our appreciation to the President for hosting this all -important Conference 
of Parties, COP 27, the fifth such on African soil.   
 
Today , extreme climate occurrences , such as severe precipitation and 
floods, prolonged drought and heat waves are happening all over the 
world, both in the developed and developing world s. Climate change is a 
global emergency , and Ghana calls on all Parties to act with equity and a 
sense of responsibility . 
 
Africa, for her part, must commit herself to resolve the issue of climate 
change by implementing ambitious measures within her reach . With her 
vast land, Africa has the greatest potential to help decarbonise the world 
by absorbing carbon dioxide through regenerative agriculture, that 
requires less fertilisers, and reforestation with strong biodiversity content . 
 
My govern ment is happy to announce that Ghana is about to launch 
projects in these areas , which will tackle , at the same time , climate change 
at global and domestic levels, and social issues , by providing people with 
dignified and sustainable jobs , and I am also happy to announce that 
Ghana has launched her Energy Transition Framework, and is co -Chair of 
the Forest Climate Leaders’ Partnership with the United States of America . 
 2 
 As President of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, I am also delighted by the 
announcement made by the Managing Director of I nternational Monetary 
Fund, the respected Kristalina Georgieva , on the operationali sation of the 
Resilience and Sustainability Trust (RST) , to help vulnerable countries 
meet their long -term challenges. 
 
As adaptation costs continue to outstrip current international public 
finance flows, we must, as a matter of urgency, mobilise and scale up 
adaptation finance inflows, to ensure that vulnerable countries are able to 
meet their adaptation needs. It is cr itical, in this regard, that the 
developed world make s good its long-delayed pledge to mobili se and 
make available one hundred billion dollars ( $100 billion ) annually to the 
poorer countries to assist in the fight against climate change , and commit , 
as agr eed at COP 26 in Glasgow, to doubling resources for adaptation .  
 
Furthermore, it is plain to all that a radical restructuring of the global 
financial architecture, as proposed by the African Finance Ministers, to 
accommodate the demands of the developing world is of urgent necessity. 
It is evident that with these poly -crises that it is not fit for purpose. I also 
urge those who hold African debt to commit to debt -for-climate swap 
initiatives . 
 
I am telling all partners: take a better look at Africa, and see her for what 
she is – a land of opportunities and growth. I know this may sound 
unrealistic, taking into consideration the dire situation most of the 
continent finds itself in today, in the aftermath of the COVID -19 pandemic 
and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. But, as far as adaptation to climate 
change is concerned, nothing can happen without Africa. With its vast, 
arable land, vibrant youth who aspire only to take their rightful place on 
the global scene, and a deeply rooted sense of innovation, Afri ca has a 
massive role to play. 
 
It is Ghana’s hope that we will leave this Summit with bold and concrete 
decisions that will help the world tackle its most pressing challenges, help 
us achieve our climate goals rapidly, and provide the needed development 
and prosperity for all the peoples of the world . No one will win if Africa 
loses.  
 
I thank you for your attention. 
 