HELLENIC REPUBLIC 
UNFCCC COP23 HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT 
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY 
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Guests, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
It is my pleasure to be here today and I would like to express our appreciation for 
Fiji’s distinctive leadersh ip as the first small island state to chair a COP. I would also 
like to thank the German Government for their excellent hospitality. 
The Paris Agreement on climate change was a historic achievement and is the basis 
for strengthening collective , global action against climate change . Global climate 
action is what we need for international security and for accelerating the transition 
to a low carbon economy which, in turn, will bring sustainable and climate -resilient 
societies. 
We welcome and endorse Fiji’s vi sion for the COP23 . Big ideas indeed can start from 
small places. We have to advance the work of the UNFCCC and preserve the 
multilateral consensus for decisive action to address the underlying causes of 
climate change, based on the sound scientific eviden ce base that we have. 
Additionally, to advance the Paris Agreement, we must ensure progress on the 
implementation guidelines and assist all the COP Presidencies in design ing the 
process for the Facilitative Dialogue in 2018. 
We hope that during COP23, prog ress on all the provisions of the agreement is based 
on a balanced approach. This approach should address both mitigation and 
adaptation, means of implementation and the transparency framework as a core 
element to ensure the effectiveness of the Paris Agre ement. In this respect, we are 
grateful to France for its strong determination to maintain the spirit and dynamism 
of the Paris Agreement. 
With regard to mitigation, Greece and t he European Union are already meeting their 
obligations under the second commi tment period of the Kyoto Protocol . We will, 
most probably, overachieve the 20% emission reduction target for 2020 compared 
to 1990 . 
Furthermore, a ccording to our EU Nationally Determined Contribution 
commitments, we are preparing for the second climate ta rget, that is to domestically 
reduce greenhouse -gas emissions by 40% in 2030. To that end, the Greek government is promoting circular economy, renewable 
energy sources , as well as the improvement of energy efficiency in public 
and private buildings. 
Apart from mitigation, we should be equally focused on adaptation issues. Over the 
last few months we have witnessed extreme weather events on a global scale. These 
events, aggravated by climate change, sadly caused numerous deaths and resulted in 
extremely sig nificant damage to infrastructure and ecosystems.  
Climate change is expected to intensify natural disasters and may generate 
migration waves , as local livelihoods in vulnerable areas are destroyed. Greece and 
Europe are already facing refugee and migratio n wave s with serious social and 
economic consequences.  
We need immediately to deal with this issue in a proactive way. Therefore, we 
underline the importance of the Task Force on Displacement and we eagerly await 
their recommendations for an integrated approach to avert, minimize and address 
displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change. 
Given the projections for the climate change impacts in the Mediterranean region , 
climate adaptation is becoming a national priority for our country. In that respect 
after formally adopting our National Adaptation Strategy , all Greek Regions are 
working to prepare detailed regional adaptation action plans. Moreover, 
cooperation in the Mediterranean on that subject is promoted at a high political 
level, bet ween Greece, Cyprus and Israel and between Greece, Cyprus and Egypt. 
Greece, together with the other EU member -states, has a vision to transform our 
societies into climate -safe, energy efficient and low -carbon economies which are 
expected to boost also the economy and create green jobs, both within our 
countries and in other regions of the world . 
Let’s not forget, Economy and Ecology, both words of Greek origin (Οικονομία & 
Οικολογία ), are not contradicting each other, instead , they lead to sustainable 
development to the benefit of all, both societies and environment. 
I would like to conclude by inviting all Parties to work together productively for an 
effective outcome, under the agreed work programme, and pave the way for a 
successful facilitative dialogue in Katowice next year. 
Thank you 