1 
 HELLENIC REPUBLIC 
Ministry of Environment & Energy 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Guests, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Before starting, I would like to express my gratitude to the Kingdom of 
Morocco and the city of Marrakech for their excellent organization and 
kind hospitality. 
It is my pleasure to be here today and I would like to thank the 
Presidency of COP22 for giving me the floor. 
Following the historic breakthrough achieved in Paris last year, 
enhancing worldwide collective action towards a climate -resilient and 
sustainable world, we know what we need to do.  
We need to stay below 2 degrees Celsius, and global greenhouse gas 
emissions need to peak by 2020 at the latest and be near zero or below, 
by the end of the century. 
Furthermore, we know what is at stake, if we do not meet these targets. 
However, it remains for us, to agree on the way to do it. 
So, we need to discuss and agree on the details. We believe, this is 
where, COP22 in Marrakesh, can play a decisive role. 
In Europe and in Greece we all recognize that climate change is a major 
global challenge – and we have been active for some time now. 2 
 The results of these efforts have transformed the EU into one of the 
most carbon -efficient major economies in the world, with low levels of 
CO2 per GDP. 
Greece, together with the other EU states, wants to turn Europe into a 
highly energy efficient and low -carbon economy which is expected also 
to boost the economy, create jobs and strengthen Europe's 
sustainability. 
The Pari s Agreement on climate change was a historic achievement but 
we know this was only the beginning of a huge and complicated global 
task. In that respect, it is imperative that all economic sectors should 
contribute to achieving the necessary emission reduct ions. 
We all need to do our share, since global problems need worldwide 
reaction and there are positive signs which are giving us hope. 
We are very pleased with the global deal reached last month in Kigali, to 
limit the use of hydro -fluoro -carbons, whic h can be crucial to achieve 
the temperature goal of 2 degrees Celsius. 
We are also very pleased that recently, both ICAO and IMO have put the 
foundations for monitoring and reducing greenhouse gases emission 
from international transport. 
For whatever reg ards Greece, and particularly climate mitigation issues, 
together with the other European Union countries, we concentrate our 
efforts to reduce green -house gas emissions.  
Our first climate target was for 20% green -house -gases reduction by 
2020, that we ex pect to overachieve, meanwhile following the 
Nationally Determined Contribution commitments, we are already 
preparing national plans for the second climate target, which is to 
domestically reduce green -house -gases in European Union by 40% in 
2030. 
Greek go vernment is also promoting the advance of renewable energy 
sources together with specific plans for the energy efficiency 
enhancement of public and private buildings. 3 
 Apart from the mitigation efforts, Greece is focusing also in the climate 
adaptation mea sures by adopting a National Adaptation Strategy that 
was ratified by Law. 
In that context, by the end of next year, the majority of the thirteen 
Greek Regions are expected to prepare detailed regional adaptation 
action plans. 
In order to coordinate the p lans and achieve the maximum outcome, a 
national adaptation observation and monitoring mechanism is foreseen, 
to provide scientific support tools to our Regions. 
 
Mr President, 
I guess we all share the view that we need to prepare - as soon as 
possible - the effective and comprehensive implementation of the Paris 
Agreement. 
To do that, we should maintain the balance and spirit of the Paris 
Agreement (and try to avoid re -interpretation of the provisions). 
Our meetings here can help by moving closer from Na tional to Global 
Action Plans, by making the “measuring progress process” as 
transparent as possible and by involving the Business Sector. 
The areas of specific focus are, among others, the Nationally Determined 
Contributions application process, the globa l Action agenda, and the 
implementation, firstly of the ambition mechanism, and secondly of the 
common transparency framework. 
As I said in the beginning, we know what is at stake, if we do not meet 
our global targets. 
Climate change is expected to provok e natural disasters that may trigger 
also migration waves. 
In my country, as you might know, we are already facing a refugee wave 
that is devastating both socially and economically. 4 
 Eventually, climate refugees will become a major new challenge – if we 
do not act immediately. 
In that respect, the entry into force of Paris agreement, should not only 
signal climate change abatement, but should also stress the importance 
of respecting and safeguarding human rights, gender equality and 
education for all with decent working conditions, while ensuring food 
security in the context of a truly sustainable world. 
For that reason, we should emphasise synergies between the Paris 
Agreement, the United Nations Agenda Twenty -Thirty, the Sendai 
Framework and the Addis A baba Action Agenda, since these are very 
important and interlinked steps forward, ensuring safe climate 
conditions with sustainable development and poverty eradication. 
 
Thank you 
 