 
Republic of Guinea -Bissau 
 
 
26TH CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS 
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
 
 
 
STATEMENT 
 
BY 
 
THE HON. GENERAL UMARO SISSOCO EMBALÓ 
 
 
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA -BISSAU 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GLASGOW, NOVEMBER 2, 2021 
 
Mr. Boris Johnson, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom 
 
Ms. Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister of Scotland 
 
Heads of State and Government, 
 
Mr. Alok Sharma, President of COP26; 
 
Ms. Patrícia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change; 
 
Mr. Philip Braat, Lord Provost of the City of Glasgow. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
 
The post -COVID -19 economic recovery must be socially just, environmentally sustainable, 
resilient, and climate -neutral in order to achieve the ambitious goals of the Paris Agreement 
on a new climate regime and the United Nations Agenda 2030. 
 
Many substantial changes have occurred in our planet and in our lives since COP21 in Paris in 
2015, requiring more responsibilities and serious commitments from all so that, together, we 
may face and resiliently adapt to these new climate and socioeconomic realities in a 
sustainable manner.  
 
 
With new global challenges, the need to increase our ambitions in mitigating the effects of 
Greenhouse Gases, and in promoting the other two Pillars, namely Finance and Adaptation, 
becomes even more urgent. 
 
Therefore , the developed countries and economies must lead this process by establishing clear 
and ambitious goals to achieve net zero emissions, that is, carbon neutrality, by 2050. 
 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
On this important occasion, in which we once again meet to rethink the future of our planet 
and our own existence, I would like to stress that my country, Guinea -Bissau, a country facing 
severe threats from Sea Level Rise, Coastal Erosion, and other climate -related risks, and 
numerous extreme vulnerabiliti es as an African country, a Least Developed Country (LCD), 
and a Small Island Developing State (SIDS), which contributes only insignificantly to global 
emissions of Greenhouse Gases under its updated Nationally Determined Contribution, is 
very clearly comm itted to a quantified emission -reduction target that covers the main sectors, 
namely, Agriculture, Forests, and Other Land Uses (AFOLU), Energy, and Waste. 
 
In addition, we have set another ambitious goal of reducing Greenhouse Gas emissions by 
30% by 2030 as compared to the baseline scenario.  
It is also important to note an unconditional goal that my country has set in order to combat 
climate change, which is to use our own resources to reduce emissions by 10% by 2030 as 
compared to the baseline scenario. 
 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
The COVID -19 Pandemic crisis must not jeopardize the climate financing agenda, and, for 
Africa, a reliable Green Fund for adaptation as well as the promotion of these three pillars 
(Ambition, Adaptation, and Finances) become even more important. We need a more 
gradual, large -scale multilateral response to address the climate crisis, with the alignment of 
the financial flow at the center of our focus. 
 
We must reach an agreement on the application of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, and on a 
financial architecture for long -term climate finance, without losing sight of the fact that a 
better implementation of the COP Mandate for agriculture requires awar eness of the strong 
link between agriculture and finance for adaptation. For this reason, we must leave Glasgow 
with a commitment to maintain a continuous financial engagement, particularly from the 
largest emitters, so that everyone does their part to ens ure a healthier planet for future 
generations.   
 
In conclusion, I solemnly reaffirm Guinea -Bissau's engagement under the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and the implementation of the goals set out under 
the Paris Agreement on a new climate regime as a key step in combating climate change, 
progressively increasing ambitions and actions nationally, sub -nationally, and collectively in 
future Nationally Determined Contributions. 
 
Thank you very much. 
 
 