Dear Mr. President, dear Excellencies, distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Bula! 
 
It is a pleasure to be here in the beautiful city of Bonn under the Fijian Presidency of the 
Conference of the Parties. To be honest, I could never have imagined that German precision and 
Fijian enthusiasm could complement each other that perfectly. I would like to thank you all for the 
opportunity to address this plenary again on behalf of Hungary at this decisive time. 
 
I was particularly pleased and excited when I have learnt about the priorities and innovations of the 
Fijian COP Presidency. The greater involvement of non -party stakeholders in the process is an 
important and essential precondition of success. The successful carry out of the first Open Dialogue, 
the introduction of the concept of the Talanoa Spirit are great examples of the out of the box 
thinking that we all have to exercise. We need creativity, openness, mutual trust, cooperation and 
determination to solve one of the greatest and most complex pro blems of our time, climate change. 
Within the EU, we are constantly exercising it. The recent agreement on the rules of the EU 
emissions trading system after 2020 is one of the latest sign of our determination. 
 
On top of that, Hungary just made a voluntar y contribution to the IPCC Trust Fund, and our second 
National Climate Change Strategy, aiming for more than 80% of GHG emission reduction until 
2050 is pending for approval by the National Parliament. 
 
I am also convinced that guided by good will and comm on determination of the Parties to the 
UNFCCC, and remarkably accelerated by the Moroccan and Fijian Presidency, the long -awaited 
Paris Work Programme will be finalized at COP24 next year in Poland, ensuring the smooth 
implementation of the historic Paris Agreement. 
 
Naturally, while we focus on the implementation of the Paris Agreement, we should not lose our 
focus of the pre -2020 actions and we encourage all Parties to do the same. As you may know, the 
European Union, including Hungary is provisionally ap plying the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto 
Protocol. I can happily report you that Hungary and the EU as a whole are overachieving their 2020 
emission reduction targets prescribed by the Amendment and we are committed to continue to 
follow this trend in the fu ture. The EU and its Member States intend to deposit their instruments of 
ratification latest by the end of this year. 
 
Moreover, already now Hungary is doing its share abroad. We are carrying out bilateral climate 
finance projects, including afforestation and adaptive water management in Uganda, promotion of 
sustainable irrigation in the Sahel Region, preparation of a National Decarbonis ation Roadmap in 
Montenegro, supporting climate smart agriculture in Mozambique, and sustainable cooling and 
water system involving wastewater project in South East Asia. A project office preparing for the 
creation of the Balkan Nationally Determined Contribution Implementation Trust Fund has also 
been set up last month in Hungary. 
 
However, we also have to keep in mind that our activities, agreements or achievements are not 
standing alone in themselves. They can encourage non -Party stakeholders as well as sub -national 
actors and send positive signals and hope to the wide public. Therefore, the importance of the 
outcome and t he message of our talks cannot be underestimated. 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen! 
 
When I look at the meaningful logo of the Fijian Presidency, the following saying comes to my 
mind; ”You can’t stop the waves, but you can learn to surf”! And it is true indeed. I th ink it is clear there is no way back. Even if we face difficulties, the growing momentum created in Paris is 
unstoppable. Let us learn to surf on it. 
 
Thank you for your kind attention!  