
Mister President 
Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, 
The science is clear. 
Recently new reports, there among publications from the IPCC and UNEP, all state 
the same scientific evidence, the stark reality of climate change. 
We are already seeing shocking extreme weather events around the globe . We 
see extensive water shortages from shrinking glaciers and snowpack; global sea -
level rise from ice sheet and glacier loss; and wildfires, floods and, landslides. 
But these are just a mild prelude to the catastrophes ahead if we do not act now 
and act fast. 
Tomorrow , Iceland and Chile, will launc h, an initiative called “Ambition on Melting 
Ice” where at least 1 6 countries have confirmed their willingness to join.  
The initiative has a clear goal to protec t the frozen areas on our earth, through 
vigorous climate action . It is not only a matter for mountain and polar nations 
alone: it is a matter of urgent global concern. All of us need to mak e it a priority 
to reduc e emission, this is a matter of urgency. As a part of this important path 
the Icelandic government has de cided not to issue any licenses for oil exploration 
in Iceland’s exclusive economic zone. Further, the Icelandic government will 
propose to Parliament to ban all oil exploration within the economic zone of 
Iceland. 
 The science tells us that the changes will be vastly greater if we don´t manage to 
keep warming within 1.5 degrees Cel sius. This fact alone should inspire us to cut 
emissions . 
Iceland has set itself an ambitious independent national target of a 55% reduction 
in emissions for which Iceland is directly responsible for by 2030, compared to 
2005 levels. Iceland also participates in reaching a n 55% reduction target in 
emission with Norway and the EU. 
Iceland emphasizes that w e must keep the goal on 1,5°C alive, but as it stands we 
are heading the wrong way. 
While we need to lower our emissions to resist climate change, we also need to 
adapt to those changes already occurring and that will magnify in the future. As a 
part of this important path the Icelandic government has decided not to issue any 
licenses for oil exploration in Iceland’s exclusive economic zone. Further, the 
Icelandic government will propose to Parliament to ban all oil exploration within 
the economic zone of Iceland. 
Adaptation is an increasingly important issue for Iceland , both domestically and 
internationally. Iceland has increased contributions to international climate 
finances with special emphasis on adaptation and will continue to do so . 
Among Iceland ’s biggest threat s from climate change are ocean acidification, 
melting ice , both glaciers and permafrost, sea -level rise, and changes in 
precipitation. This affects e cosystems and biodiversity on which we base our 
societies . Iceland underscores the importance of building adaptation measures on 
scientific ground s and the best possible information available with the broad 
participation of stakeholders and local communities . 
Food system s are an example of the transboundary implications, as many 
countries are reliant on produ cts from multiple parts of the world. Iceland is an 
example of this , with a geographical setting in the middle of the North Atlantic 
and reliant on imported food and supplies for food production . 
 
Ladies and gentlemen. Knowing that, here is the place where we can really make 
changes. Let´s be those who are remembered for taking responsibility, be brave and let´s 
be the catalyst of change! 
 