President, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Climate change is happening. If you want to see it with your own eyes, few places 
offer better proof than Iceland and its glaciers . The Vatnajökull i ce cap is Europe‘s 
largest by volume, and it is shrinking, leaving iceberg -filled lagoons at its retreating 
edges. There is less ice in Iceland every year, and our glaciers may largely vanish in a 
century or two. 
 
But perhaps more troubling are the less vi sible effects. Profound changes are taking 
place in the ocean s – in temperature , currents and chemical properties . Ocean 
acidification is a real and serious threat to marine life. Tropical coral reefs, those 
famous hotspots of biodiversity, face a bleak fu ture – literally – with heating and 
acidification. 
 
Acidification affect s not only the tropics, but all waters . Rapid acidification is observed 
in the sea around Iceland, which in the long term threatens cold -water corals, 
shellfish, many types of plankto n and indeed the entire marine ecosystem and food 
chain. This is a cause for worry for Iceland, as our economy is very dependent on 
fisheries. Iceland has joined other countries and actors in an Alliance to Combat Ocean 
Acidification, to help raise awarene ss of this hidden menace. Iceland welcomes the 
efforts of Fiji, as president of COP23, to highlight the plight of the sea and its role in 
climate mitigation and adaptation. 
 
 How can we halt ocean acidification ? There is really only one solution – to ha lt the 
emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Iceland remains commited 
to the Paris Agreement and is updating policies in order to ensure its implement ation . 
 
For electricity and heating, Iceland has already achieved an Energiewende , as our 
physical host country of Germany calls the transformation of energy systems from 
fossil fuels to renewables. Effectively all stationary energy comes from hydro and 
geothermal sources. We now must transform mobile energy use in the same way. A 
push toward s electric cars – by tax incentives and support for charging infrastructure – 
is showing results . The share of electric and hybrid cars in new sales is the second 
highest in Europe this year, after Norway. Shi pping lags behind land transport in this 
regard , but ships powered by electricity, hydrogen and methanol are being designed 
and launched . An Energiewende for cars and ships will not happen overnight, but is a 
priority in Iceland ‘s mitigation efforts.  
 
Sustainable management of land is crucial for both adaptation and mitigation of 
climate change . We need incentives for afforestion, revegetation, reclamation of 
drained wetlands and other actions that reduce emissions and enhance sinks . 
The guidance we are developing under the Paris Agreement should help us to improve 
clarity in accounting for the land sector . A good rulebook, which we will have in place 
next year, will assist us in meaningful action in all sectors to halt climate change. 
 
 
Thank you, 