INDIA COUNTRY STATEMENT FOR COP -24, KATOWICE, POLAND 
Statement on behalf of Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Hon’ble Minister, Environment, 
Forest & Climate Change , Government of India 
12/12/ 2018 
 
Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
I convey my thanks to Government of Poland for their warm ho spitality and 
hosting the COP 24 . Mr. President , India shares a harmonious relationship with 
Poland characterized by goodwill and cooperation. We have come here with the 
same goodwill and we assure you of our full support towards a successful COP 
24. 
Excellencies , COP 24 is an extremely crucial meeting in our ongoing efforts to 
save our planet for current and future generations . We welcome the recent IPCC 
Special Report which tells us that hum an activities are estimated to have caused 
approximately 1.0°C of global warming above pre -industrial levels and is 
currently increasing at 0.2°C per decade. The vulnerable populations are the 
worst hit by extreme weather events due to lack of resources to cope with them. 
The Report enjoins upon us to collectively address the issues of climate change 
with urgency that it deserves. 
 
2 
 Excellencies , it is time we focus on finding common grounds and supporting 
each other based on the principles of equity and climate justice so that “No One 
is Left Behind ”. It is importan t to ensure equitable access to global commons for 
all. Mr. President, Paris Agreement signifies progress towards enhanc ed 
implementation of Convention. While we do so, we have to maintain continuity 
in action by fulfilling pre -2020 commitments. While we continue to take stock of 
pre-2020 action and ambition next year as well, we expect that developed 
countries shall honour their pre -2020 commitments so that no undue burden is 
shifted to post -2020 period. We also look forward to see Doha Amendment c ome 
into force as soon as possible. 
Mr. President , we all agree that Paris Agreement is non -negotiable . Therefore, 
the delicate balance reached between developed and developing countries must 
be retained, and the principles such as equity and Common but Differentiated 
Responsibility and Respective Capabilities must be given its due . The outcome at 
Katowice should be inclusive, consensus based and an integrated package 
including all the components of Paris Agreement Work Programme to reflect the 
global consensus reached three years ago on this very day while adopting Paris 
Agreement . Most importantly, we must stand with the poor , marginalized and 
vulnerable communities w ho would be most impacted by climate change to 
show that ‘WE CARE’ . 
3 
 Excellencies , India is home to a large number of poor and marginalized 
vulnerable populations with huge developmental needs , with about 30% of 
global poor population. However, despite our serious resource constraints and 
developmental priorities, India is strongly committed to fight climate change and 
assures that it will make every possible effort within its capacity.  
Mr. President , India has already achieved its voluntary pre-2020 goal of 
reducing emission intensity by 20 -25% from 2005 levels by 2020 . We have 
further initiated the process to develop plan s for our NDC implementation and 
are confident that we will be able to achieve our goals. India is guided by its own 
value s and belief in sustainable life styles which respects nature , evident from 
the fact that our share in cumulative historical global GHG emissions is only 
about 3 percent and our per capita emissions are just about one -third of global 
average . Our renewable energy capacity stands at more than 70 GW today . We 
have further in vest ed in energy efficiency measures, sustainab le cities and 
transport systems. Our forest and tree cover has increased by 1 percent as 
compared to assessment of 2015 . We are also bringing citizens as part of 
solutions through schemes like LED distribution which has crossed the number 
of 300 million so far; distributing clean cooking stoves to women below poverty 
line which covering more than 58 million households and br inging mass 
movement by encouraging people to do atleast one ‘green good deed’ , like s aving 
4 
 energy, conserving water , etc everyday . India also showed leadership by 
announcing the pledge to eliminate single use plastic by 2022. We would 
continue to do more. However, while we do our bit, key concern s such as , access 
to finance, technology transfer and c apacity building , needs to be addressed as 
necessary enablers . Access to adequate climate finance , non-regression in these 
commitments and stronger commitment to the cause of technology is essential 
for developing countries to be conf ident in our collective journey towards 
sustainable development . We must keep our trust in multilateralism . 
Excellencies , India’s Hon’ble Prime Minister is amongst the thought leaders in 
this area and our commitment to climate action is second to none. We have 
always believed in mantra of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' which means world is 
one family and the best example of bringing together this family is International 
Solar Alliance, launch ed jointly by Hon’ble PM and President of France. With an 
unprecedented support from countries and other partners, i t has now entered 
into force as a treaty -based international inter -governmental organization. 71 
countries have signed and 48 countries have ratified the agreement so far. It was 
therefore, a proud moment for India when t he world acknowledged India’s 
contribution to the cause by conferring the Champions of the Earth Award, UN’s 
highest environmental honour, on our Hon’ble Prime Minister.  
5 
 Mr. President, India stands for action and will stand together with the world as 
a family to fight climate change. Therefore, let’s commit ourselves towards 
working together in a balanced and inclusive manner to reach an outcome which 
is true to the goal o f Convention , its Paris Agreement and its principles and 
provisions. Mr. President, let me assure you that India will always abide by its 
commitments and walk together with the global community . 
THANK YOU! 