Excellency Mr. President, 
Distinguis hed Delegates , 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
At the outset, I wish to congratulate you Mr. President for assuming the 
Presidency of this COP -23, as we embark on the full implementation of Paris 
Agreement. We are confident that under your able leadership we can achieve 
substant ive accomplishments. 
 On that note, I would also like to thank the Moroccan Presidency during 
the COP -22, and we shall continue the spirit to achieve more. Such spirit 
would not have been possible without the support from the Government and 
people of Germa ny in making this COP happen. To them, we shall render our 
tribute and gratitude. 
 
Excellencies, 
 The Paris Agreement came into a rapid entry into force in November 
2016. As of today, 170 parties have ratified the agreement, a nd we welcome 
countries that have recently declared their intentions to sign or ratify . 
Challenges, however, remain. We must therefore strive in unity to 
maintain the momentum of the landmark agreement. The adverse impact of 
climate change can never be tackled by one country alone! The global 
commitments to the Paris Agreement must be strengthened as it is 
irreversible . It must stay irreversible and non -negotiable , because climate 
change is a global responsibility.  
In our part, Indonesia reaffirms its strong commitment to the Paris 
Agreement and other environmental agreements by conducting the following: 
- Established a National Transparency Framework in accordance to the Paris 
Agreement; 
- State recognition for customary forest; 
- Restored 680.000 hectares of peatland from the target of 2 million hectares 
by 2020 ; 
- Ratified the Minamata Convention; 
- Committed to reducing 70% of plastic debris by 2025 from 2017 level; 
- Continued assistance for other developing countries’ efforts o n climate 
action through South -South and Triangular Cooperation in agriculture, 
forestry and coastal area manage ment. 
 
Excellencies, 
We urge parties to make best efforts in demonstrating signif icant 
progress to achieve an early operationalization of the Paris Agreement by 
adopting the Paris Agreement implementation guidelines in 2018. 
Furthermore, the guidelines shoul d take into consideration a balance between 
mitigation, adaptation, finance and capacity building as well as technology 
development and transfer.  The process in developing the Paris Agreement 
implementation guidelines will also be crucial to gain inputs and necessary 
information for the F acilitative Dialogue in upcoming year. 
 
Developed countries must continue to lead the global efforts in tackling 
climate change, while ensuring access to means of implementation for 
developing countries, especially those most prone to the adverse effects of 
climate change. Developing countries, on the other hand, must show their 
concrete contributions to these global efforts. We also hope that the 
COP -23 will become the political impetus in 
maintaining the strong global commitment to the Paris Agreement. 
 
Excellencies,  
As an arc hipelagic state, Indonesia faces the same threats from climate 
change to that of our brothers and sisters living in island states, among them: 
changing weather patte rns, abrasion of coastal areas and rising sea levels. 
In relation to this, Indonesia stands ready to support Fiji for its COP 
Presidency. 
Furthermore, Indonesia believe that the “Talanoa Dialogue ” proposed 
by Fiji, which promotes i nclusiveness, participation, transparency , and 
building empathy will be an important modality for the upcoming Facilitative 
Dialogue in 2018. 
Last but not least, we also support Fiji’ s initiative to strengthen the role 
of ocean in tackling climate change. It is imperative for the world to protect the 
ocean , as it is the world’s largest active carbon sink. 
I thank you Mr. President. 