 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF INDONESIA 
AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE COP, CMP, CMA 
KATOWICE, 12 DECEMBER 2018 
 
Thank you Mr. President, 
Indonesia would like to congratulate Poland for assuming the COP -24 Presidency . We 
thank the Government and the people of Katowice for their hospitality. 
Indonesia believe s that we gather here with the commitment to complete our mandate 
from Paris . We are confident , that under your very able leadership, Mr. President, we 
could adop t a balance – comprehensive Paris Agreement rule book, result ing from a 
transparent, inclusive, and country driven process es, and applicable to all with the 
principle of CBDR -RC.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
Indonesia is one among countries which ratified the Paris Agreement , less than one year 
after the adoption of the agreement. We have set an ambitiou s unconditional target of 
29% up to 41% conditional target of emission reduction from 2030 BAU scenario, with 
forestry and energy as the major targeted sectors. Adaptation is an important part of our 
NDC, with three target area of climate resilience , namely economy, social and 
livelihood, and lastly ecosystem and landscape.  
 
Our nation al value s and goal s will enable us to meet our commitment under the Paris 
Agree ment, mandating that all citizens have the right for good environment, and that 
natural resources are governed by the states for the greatest prosperity of the citizens in 
Sustainable way, as reflected in our Constitution 1945 ’s Articles 28 H and Article 33. 
Under President Joko Widodo administrative government, r elevant policy reform s have 
been carried out , including legal the recognition of the right s of Masyarakat Hukum Adat 
or local natives , improving access for local communities to forest land and resources 
through Social Forestry, enhancing Forest Management Unit at site level , and 
implementing joint adaptation and mitigation at the grass root levels . There are also 
efforts in energy sector through the development of renewable energy and policy to 
enhance the quality of fossil fuel and coal. The increasing r oles of Non -Party 
stakeholders are encouraging and very dynamic , from the sub-national government, 
private sectors, civil societies to grassroots, as well as the supports from the parliament,  
 2 and judiciary for enforcement . In tracking our progress, w e establish ed a National 
Registry System to record and monitor all climate actions and their respective resources, 
as well as on the final stage of financial channeling arrangement. 
 
Mr. President , 
 
The recent IPCC’s Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5o C, highlighted the 
importance of early action against climate change, which makes the role of pre -2020 
ambition even more critical. Therefore, Indonesia would like to urge our d eveloped 
country par tners , to meet their pre -2020 commitment , and to rapidly increase their 
ambition in meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement , both in emission reduction 
and in providing means of implementation , to developing countries .  
 
Mr. President, 
 
We recognized , the importance for all countries to transform , to low emission and 
climate resilience development pathway . Indonesia, like many other emerging 
economies, fac es challenges in balancing between meeting international commitment 
and achieving national develo pment objectives . Indonesia , would like to see fair and 
just international policies that are conducive for both international and national interests. 
We could not accept the use of environmental issues including climate to be a means of 
disguise t rade dis crimination against developing countries. 
In closing, Mr. President, we should not allow any attempt to renegotiate the Paris 
Agreement. Indonesia assure s you our good faith to achieving concrete results in 
Katowice , and looks forward to support your leadership by working together 
constructively with other Parties. 
 
Thank you Mr. President . 
 
 
 