Versi Bey 25 Okt (Rev Bapak) 
 
 
STATEMENT BY 
 
 
PRESIDEN T JOKO WIDODO 
PRESIDEN T OF THE REPUBLI C OF INDONESIA 
 
 
AT THE  
 
 
WORLD LEADERS’ SUMMIT 
 
 
26TH CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES (COP26) 
UN FRAMEWORK CONVENTION 
ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC) 
 
 
HOSTED BY 
UNFCCC 
&  
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM 
 
 
1-2 NOVEMBER 2021
 2 Your Excellency , 
 
1. Climate change is a major threat to global prosperity and development … 
 
• Solidarity, partnership, cooperation, global collaboration are key. 
 
2. With such great natural potential, Indonesia continues to contribute in 
tackling climate change . 
 
• Deforestation rates have fallen significantly… the lowest in the last 20 
years. 
• Forest fires were down by 82% in 2020. 
• Indonesia has begun the rehabilitation of mangrove forests covering 
an area of 600,000 ha by 2024, the largest in the world. 
• Indonesia has also rehabilitated 3 million critical lands between 2010 
– 2019. 
• The sector which initially contributed 60% of Indonesia's emissions, 
will reach the Carbon Net Sink by 2030 . 
 
3. In the energy sector , we continue to progress … 
 
• with the development of electric vehicle ecosystem … 
• Building Southeas t Asia’s largest solar power plant … 
• Utilisation of new and r enewable energy, includin g biofuel s… 
• and development of clean energy -based industries… including the 
world's largest green industrial park in North Kalimantan. . 
 
4. However, these are not enough. 
 
• We, especially as a country with large green areas and regreening 
potential… 
• and as a country with vast seas that have the potential to contribute 
to carbon sequestration … 
• need support and contribution from developed countries . 
 
5. Indonesia will continue to mobilize climate finance and innovative 
financing , such as blended financ e, green bonds and green sukuk . 
 3 6. Fulfillment of climate finance by developed country partners is a game 
changer in climate change mitigation and adaptation for developing 
countries . 
 
7. Indonesia itself will be able to contribute faster to the world's Net-Zero 
Emissions goal. 
 
• The question is then, how sizeable are developed countries’ 
contributions for us? 
• What kind of transfers of technology can be provided? 
• What programs can be supported to achieve the SDGs targets that 
have been hampered by the pandemic ? 
 
8. In addition, carbon market and carbon pricing…must be part of the 
efforts to address climate change issues … 
 
9. A carbon economy ecosystem that is transparent and has integrity… 
inclusive and fair… must be created . 
 
Excellencies… 
 
10. There is no point in blaming each other, let alone create conflict s. 
 
• There is no value in becoming a victor … in a sinking world. 
 
11. In closing … a t this Summit…on behalf of the Archipelagic and Small 
Island States Forum (AIS)…Indonesia is honored to be able to circulate a 
Joint Statement of the Archipelagic and Island States Forum 
Leaders . 
 
12. The AIS Forum will continue to promote maritime cooperation and climate 
action in serving the UNFCCC . 
 
13. Thank you . 
 
[Word count : 454] 
 
---o000o --- 