In the Name of God, Most Compassionate, Most Merciful 
Statement Delivered at the COP22 UNFCCC in Marrakech, 15th Nov. 2016 
by: 
H.E. Dr. Massoumeh Ebtekar 
Vice President of Islamic Republic of Iran and Head of Department of 
Environment 
 
 
His Majest y Mohammed VI, 
Distinguished Heads o f States, Governments, 
H.E. Sal ahed dine Mezouar, the President of COP22, 
H.E. Patricia Espinos a, Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, 
Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
At the outset I wish to express our appreciation to the Government and the people of Morocco 
for hosting this COP so efficiently as well as the hospitality extended to my delegation. I should 
also thank the UNFCCC Secretariat for organizing this important Conference and various 
meetings and negotiations. Indeed Marrakech is a land mark move on combatin g global 
warming both for the K yoto Protocol and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
 
Mr. President, 
1-Islamic Republic of Iran has demonstrated its comprehensive efforts to contribute to the fight 
against global warming. Our realistic and unconditional offer of 4% reduction of anthropogenic 
GHGs emissions by 2030 below the business as usual scenario and additional 8% reduction 
subject to removal of all sanctions and provision of enhanced financial, te chnological and human 
resources capacities flowing from developed country Parties , are real proofs of Iran’s 
determination in this regard. Also, I wish to announce that three days ago Iranian Parliament 
approved the ratification of the Paris Agreement as well as practical measures Iran is pursuing in 
both adaption and mitigation fields , including adaptation of low carbon economy strategy and 
major plans to change current agriculture patterns and irrigation methods to conserve water. Bearing in mind the obstacles Iran is additionally facing for accessing GEF financial resources 
for environmental projects that are yet suspended. 
2-This COP has quite rightfully been named “COP for action and implementation. Taking 
prompt actions to implement the pre 2020 ac tions , especially through a clear road map for 
provision of means of implementation, are the minimum that the global public opinion would be 
judging the extent of the determination of the Parties , specially the developed country Parties, to 
abide by the pr inciples and provisions of the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol. Thus, an 
accelerated ratification and implementation of Doha amendment coupled with provision of long 
term predictable and quantifiable climate finance in particular through mobilizing 100 Billion 
USD per annum to 2020 ou t of public resources for climate financing in conjunction with  clear 
and well structured actions on technology development and transfer actions , linked with 
ambitious emissions cut s by developed country Parties , shal l be an assessment of seriousness to 
fulfill the obligations to address climate change . 
 
3-In the light of the complex nexus between climate change and diversity of social , economic, 
health and environmental issues, such as th e adverse environmental impacts of armed conflicts, 
women and children, food and fresh water security, disasters such as the dust and sand storms, 
distortion of attaining sustainable development goals and targets, adaptation priorities of the 
developing coun try parties specially the most vulnerable, and climate migration are to be given 
utmost attention and appropriate means of implementation to address the adaptation, mitigation 
and related issues to prevent and reduce the scope of challenges , as these issue s are on the 
growth impeding development patterns and offsetting the regional and global endeavors to 
combat global warming. 
  
Distinguished colleagues, 
4- Differentiation is an integral component of our climate change agreements. The principal of 
Common but Differentiated Responsibility and respective capabiliti es has been the cornerstone 
of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto protocol for 
clarity on commitments and actions by different group of countries in the context of combating 
climate change and giving direction to the functions of bodies and arrangements under these 
instruments. The Paris Agreement is also seen under this convention and hence shall be 
implemented in a manner that fully reflect CBDR and differentia tion among commitments of 
developed countries in all fields of this agreement, particularly mitigation, adaption and 
provision of Means of Implementation namely financial resources, transfer and development of 
technology; and contributions and actions by d eveloping country Parties. This principle should 
be mainstreamed in all areas of actions and their assessment and follow -up, including in the 
fields of transparency, compliance and procedures, modalities and guidelines of various bodies acting under the co nvention as well as the Paris Agreement, the agenda and proceedings of the 
relevant events such as facilitative dialogues and global stock taking. 
5-The climate change should be addressed in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals 
and poverty eradication whilst acknowledging the inter linkages amongst such goals. In this 
regard sectoral measures are strongly warned to be avoided since such approaches will have 
serious adverse impacts the foreign trade capacities of the developing c ountries , crippling their 
capacities to address various dimensions of Climate Change . Developed country Parties should 
continue taking the lead by undertaking economy -wide absolute emission reduction targets as 
reiterated in the Paris Agreement. Undertakin g any measure to make to exert pressure on 
developing coun try Parties in various fields of international economy and finance shall be 
detrimental to their ability to meet their NDCs and is against the spirit and commitments of 
Parties enshrined in UNFCCC, Kyoto Protocol and Paris Agreement . We cannot proceed with 
the current materialist ic consumerist approach in managing global resources. We need through 
rethink policies to recognize the infinite boundaries of our creator and respect life in all forms. 
 
Mr. President, in conclusion, 
6- Developed country Parties obligation under the convention, amongst a few, is to take the lead 
in reducing their emission of Green House Gases. Compliancy of the Parties to their 
commitments and contributions is a strong sign o f fidelity. No Developed Party, particularly in 
line with their historical responsibility at this very crucial time, i.e. the entry into force of the 
Paris Agreement, is to devise non -founded scientific, political or economic issues used as 
pretexts to back slide on their legal participatory key role in the fight against global warming. 
 
I sincerely thank you for your attention. 
 
Massoumeh Ebtekar, 
Vice President of Islamic Republic of Iran 
and 
Head of Department of Environment 