Excellencies, 
This is an important meeting for all of the world’s 
people. 
We come here as leaders, and it is vital that we offer the 
leadership the world now urgently needs. 
Climate change is real – we are seeing its serious 
impacts already. The IPCC Report in August confirmed 
to us that it is widespread, it is rapid, and it is 
intensifying. 
The scale of this change is unprecedented. 
But, as the Report made cl ear, it is not too late. 
Human actions still have the potential to determine the 
future course of climate, the very future of our planet. 
To achieve our Paris goals, immediate, large -scale 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are essential. 
Unless we ac t now, we will not keep the possibility of 
limiting warming to 1. 5 degrees alive. 
 
The scientists are playing their part, in helping us to 
understand the dynamics of climate change and in 
developing the technologies and responses we need to 
limit its effect . 
As political leaders, it is our responsibility to put the 
necessary policies in place. 
Ireland is ready to play its part. 
We have enacted legislation to put a legally binding 
target of reducing our emissions by 2030 to 51% below 
2018 levels. 
We will reach climate neutrality by 2050. 
We are working closely with our EU partners in the 
green transition that will make Europe the first climate -
neutral continent. 
We are implementing a statutory system of carbon 
budgeting and emissions ceilings for each sector of the 
economy. 
We are working at the UN Security Council to put the 
destabilising impacts of climate change firmly on the 
agenda. 
We do not believe or accept, as some would have it, 
that it is too late; that the transition will be too costly; 
that it is inevitable that we will leave people behind; 
that someone else should shoulder the load. 
We believe in the immense capacity of humans to work 
together and to achieve great things. 
If we act decisively now, we will offer humanity the 
most valuable pri ze of all – a liveable planet. 
We can achieve a cooler world. A biodiverse world. A 
world with healthier air for us to breathe, healthier soil 
for things to grow in. A world in which people can live 
more sustainable lives, handing a healing and enriched 
planet to future generations. 
We can create a world in which human impact on all 
parts of our ecosphere – the land, the sea, the air - is 
brought back into balance.
 
Those of us in the developed world – those who have, 
frankly, contributed most to the prob lems that confront 
us all – have an obligation to support those who are 
most acutely challenged by their consequences. 
Ireland accepts that obligation. 
In support of achieving the $100bn target, I am 
therefore pleased to announce today that Ireland will 
more than double its contribution to developing 
countries , so that we are delivering at least €225m a 
year by 2025. 
As leaders, if we are to bring people with us on this 
journey of a lifetime we must also recognise and respect 
the real anxiety that many people feel when confronted 
by such an enormous challenge. 
Our young people worry that there will be no 
worthwhile fu ture for them to inherit. 
Workers worry that their jobs will disappear, leaving 
them without a livelihood. 
 
Consumers, already feeling the impact of energy price 
rises, feel that the transition will be too costly for them 
to bear. 
In response, I say I will do everything in my power, 
working with all of the leaders here today, to make sure 
that it is not so. 
To ensure that we will succeed in limiting emissions; to 
ensure that the transition we deliver is jobs -rich and 
economically sustainable; to ensure tha t there is real 
climate justice and nobody, in any part of the world, is 
left behind. 
The IPCC report made it clear that every tonne of 
carbon warms the world. 
Every second of delay makes our task that bit bigger. 
Let us leave Glasgow with a renewed comm itment to 
doing what we know needs to be done. 
Let us move forward together now. 