
Excellencies, 
 
Across the world, we are witnessing the reality of a 
changing climate - record temperatures, wildfires, 
floods, and droughts. 
 
What were once exceptional events are now occurring 
with increased frequency and ferocity. 
 
People in the poorest parts of our planet are being 
driven from regions that can no longer support and 
susta in them. 
 
Climate change is fuelling conflict, global instability, 
competition for resources and abject human misery. 
 
 
If this generation doesn’t step up urgently, future 
generations will not forgive us. 
 
As leaders, it is our responsibility to drive the 
transformation necessary. 
 
In Ireland, the Government has set legally binding 
emission reduction targets of 51% by 2030, and has 
committed Ireland to becoming climate -neutral by 
2050. 
 
We have fixed Sectoral Emissions Ceilings limiting 
greenhouse gas emissions for each economic sector. 
 
Achieving these targets will be challenging, so we have 
enacted a legal framework to guide and underpin our 
efforts. 
 
The burden of climate change globally is falling most 
heavily on those least responsible for our predicament. 
 
Ireland has therefore published an International Climate 
Finance Roadmap, reaffirming our commitment to 
supporting the worlds’ most vulnerable people.  
 
We are more than doubling our finance to at least 
€225m a year by 2025. 
 
We will not see the change we need without climate 
justice. 
 
I am therefore pleased to announce that Ireland will 
contribute €10 million to the Global Shield initiative for 
2023, to protect the most vulnerable from climate loss 
and damage. 
 
As Leaders, we must lead. 
 
Our citizens will become increasingly cynical, weary 
and hopeless if words are not urgently matched by 
deeds; if commitments do not generate new realities. 
 
We can already see and feel the world around us 
changing. 
 
Temperatures in Ireland have been so mild this autumn 
that trees are producing new growth before they have 
even shed their leaves. 
 
The situation is urgent, but it is not hopeless. 
 
As the UN report shows, we are bending the curve of 
emissions downwards. 
 
Last year’s UN projections showed emissions 
continuing to rise beyond 2030. This year, however, 
analysis shows them no longer rising after that date. 
 
It is progress, but it is far from enough. 
 
Our collective commitments, as notified, would still see 
temperatures increase by 2.5 degrees by the end of the 
century, with devastating consequences for the 
sustainability of our planet. 
 
We need to do more.  
 
When I spoke at COP26 last year I said I did not believe 
that it is now too late; that the transition will be too 
costly; that it is inevitable that we will leave people 
behind. 
 
I believe it even more so now. 
 
It is realistic for our legacy to be a su stainable planet; a 
world alive with an abundance of plant and animal life; 
with cleaner water and healthier air; with liveable cities 
and sustainable rural communities. 
 
We will do everything in our power to bring it about. 
 
This generation of Leaders ca nnot say that we didn’t 
know. 
 
The science is clear. 
 
Every tonne of carbon warms the world. 
 
Every delay makes our task that bit bigger. 
 
Let us not waste a second more. 
 
Thank you very much 
ENDS 