Page 1 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF 
THE HONORABLE PRIME MINISTER ANDREW HOLNESS, ON, MP 
TO THE 
WORLD LEADERS SUMMIT OF THE 26TH CONFERENCE OF PARTIES (COP 26) 
TO THE 
UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC) 
Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom 
November 1 -2, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4 
 Mr President, Excellencies and Colleagues,  
 
On behalf of the people of Jamaica , we thank the 
Government of the United Kingdom for their strong 
commitment and leadership in hosting this COP 26 within the 
context of the COVID -19 pandemic , and the excellent 
arrangements that have been made to keep us safe . 
 
The message is clear, climate change remains a pre -eminent 
priority for global action. As we have come to appreciate 
with the pandemic, “no one is safe until everyone is safe” . So 
too with CLIMATE CHANGE. Al l countries must act responsibly 
and with ambition to preserve our climate for all inhabitants 
and future generations of our planet. 
 
For a brief moment , the pandemic shuttered the world and 
may have even reduced emissions. Importantly, we 
demonstrated that the world has the capacity to develop 
global solutions in record time when we believe and agree 
that the problem threatens our safety and security. The 
pandemic demonstrated the need for equity . Equity must 
also be at the heart of our response to climate change. Page 3 of 4 
 Countries that have profited the most from carbon over 
decades have a responsibility to provide others with 
resources and technology to transition to low carbon 
economies. This was the basis of the US$100 billion a year 
pledge from developed countries at the Copenhagen COP 
in 2009. We need a renewed commitment to this pledge. 
 
Allow me to strongly emphasize that witho ut developed 
countries meeting this pledge, our national efforts at climate 
resilience and low carbon development are simply 
unachievable.  
 
If we are to have any realistic chance of meeting our climate 
ambitions , we need financ ing that is predictable, less 
fragmented, and easier to access. For Small Island 
Developing States, with miniscule carbon footprints, the 
greater need for funding is for protection and recovery from 
disasters as well as for climate adaptation. 
 
 
 Page 4 of 4 
 There are examples; with the help of the World Bank and with 
grant support from the Governments of the UK, Germany and 
the United States, Jamaica became the first small island 
state, to independently sponsor a catastrophe bond which 
will provide financial protection against losses from 
hurricanes. 
 
While climate change affects all countries, the impact on 
Small Island Developing States is disproportionately greater. 
Climate Change threatens our very survival. Meeting the 
1.5°C target is a matter of li fe and death for us. We are at a 
pivotal moment in history. All countries must increase their 
NDCs ambition to get us back on track. Our actions at COP26 
will determine whether the planet will remain liv eable for 
future generations. 
 
Let us meet this moment with Urgent and D ecisive Action. 
 
 
 