 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE DARYL VAZ, MP  
MINISTER WITHOUT PORTFOLIO WITH RESPONSIBILITY 
FOR LAND, THE ENVIRONMENT, CLIMATE CHANGE AND INVESTMENT IN THE 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC GROWTH AND JOB CREATION 
TO THE 
HIGH -LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE 25TH CONFERENCE OF PARTIES (COP 25) 
TO THE 
UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 I am pleased to present Jamaica’s views to the High-Level Segment of the 
25th Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change. 
 
Let me begin by thanking the Government of Spain for their herculean efforts 
in hosting COP 25. I wish to also thank the COP Bureau, the Executive 
Secretary and her Secretariat team , for their quick action and support for the 
staging of this COP in Madrid. We would like to also recognize with equal 
importance, the Republic of Chile as the President of COP 25 here in Madrid 
under the leadership of Mrs. Carolina Schmi dt. It is indeed under her 
mandate that we hope to see a real increase in ambition from developed 
countries, with a more balanced attention on mitigation and adaptation; as 
well as an effective and timely implementation of the iconic Paris Agreement. 
 
Madame President , 
3 
 This year has been one of particular importance as it relates to the global 
response and action towards climate change. I n the international arena, the 
Climate Action Summit and the Climate Youth Summit convened by the UN 
Secretary General , served as an important forum to focus the attention of 
world leaders, government officials, private sector and civil society on the 
urgency to address what we know now to be a “Climate Emergency ”. 
In early September, I accompanied the Prime Minister of J amaica, T he Most 
Hono urable Andrew Holness , ON, MP, to New York in response to the 
urgent call of the United Nations Secretary General to co -lead a process of 
political advocacy and to garner the support of the global community for the 
urgent mobilization of Climate Finance in response to the goals of the Paris 
Agreement. Under this leadership role, Jamaica actively contributed to the 
discussions on Climate F inance with a view to bring much needed attention 
to the finance gap in adaptation for vulnerable countries :  as well as access 
and availability. 
 
4 
 The UN Climate Action Summit, in large part delivered several pledges and 
actions that , when combined and only if effectively implemented, can support 
countries in their efforts to speed up the ir transition to low carbon. 
 
 
Madame President, 
Please allow me to strongly emphasize that without accessing the 
appropriate and sufficient financing that developed countries have 
committed to make available to vulnerable countries, especially Small Island 
Developing States, our national efforts for climate resiliency and low carbon 
development will simply not be achieved . 
 
As Minister with responsibility for Climate Change in Jamaica, I would like to 
reiterate the message from Prime Minister Holness taken from his National 
Statement at the UN Climate Action Summit, which I believe needs to be 
5 
 recalled here again and I quote: “ The global financial system requires an 
immediate transformation. It must be science -based, technically appropriate, 
transparent and supported by accurate and inclusive tracking 
methodologies ”.  
 
The financial sector must recognize that investing in mitigation and most 
importantly - adaptation , is imperative from the perspective of risk 
management, but it is also perhaps the biggest investment opportunity of this 
generation.  
 
Jamaica advocated for the replenishment of the Green Climate Fund and 
continues to call on more countries to mobilize their contributions and fulfil 
their commitments to the fund . 
 
Madame President,  
6 
 “Leave No One Behind ” has been expressed repeatedly from the opening 
day of COP 25. However, it only requires one hurricane  to wipe out not 
just critical infrastructure and livelihoods , but often this can lead to many 
years of austerity and sacrifice in order to recover . Such extreme weather 
events therefore have the potential to seriously set back the scarce 
development gains made by countries like Jamaica , making us not only 
physically vulnerable, but also fiscally vulnerable. 
 
Madame President,   Excellencies, 
If action is not taken quickly, adapting to the effects of climate change will 
become more and more expensive for everyone . 
 
This is one of the reasons why Jamaica is aggressively pursuing a holistic 
National Disaster Risk Financing Strategy and has also i nitiated 
collaboration with key international private sector players to analyze physical 
climate risk in critical infrastructure. Similarly, we will continue the 
7 
 engagement with the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action to 
ensure that our Ministry of Finance is able to take action at the local level 
and bring domestic financial institutions and private sector investors into the 
discussion for climate action. 
 
 
Madam e President , 
We were not directly affected by a hurricane during 2019 and for this the 
country is most grateful. However, we are still recovering from the effects of 
extreme drought conditions. In 2019, our entire island was challenged with 
managing scare water resources. In response, t he G overnment 
implemented a Drought Mitigation Plan that significantly alleviated th is 
stressful situation . This action has made us reflect even more on the 
importance of mainstreaming climate change into critical sectors of our 
economy in order to effectively respond to these occurr ing extreme weather 
events.   
8 
 
Similarly, the Ministry of Finance and the Public Service has made a transfer 
to the National Disaster Contingency Fund of an estimated amount of USD 
$14,230,782 million for emergency and disaster recovery. This is an 
import ant effort from the Government to maintain fiscal discipline , while 
ensuring fast response and recovery to our country and our people in the 
event of a n extreme weather event . 
 
Madam e President, Excellencies, delegates, observers, 
I provide this information to show that as a small island developing state, we 
are putting measures in place to reduce the impact of climate change , both 
physical ly and fiscal ly, and we welcome the collaboration and 
co-operation from the international community to support these efforts. 
 
9 
 In addition , I wish to highlight initiatives that Jamaica has embarked on , in 
order to increase climate action and most importantly raise ambition: 
• The development of a Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action for the 
water sector , aimed at identifying potential ways for improving 
efficiencies in the system while reducing the sector’s dependence on 
fossil fuel-based energy generation ; 
• The recent commissioning of the largest solar photovoltaic  farm in the 
English -speaking Caribbean , which will generate 51MW (Megawatt) 
and will provide the cheapest electricity on the island at USD 
$0.085/kWh (Kilowatt hour) ; 
• The installation of a facility for storing energy generated by solar and 
wind also the first of its kind in Jamaica and the English -speaking 
Caribbean ; 
• The launch of a National Tree Planting Programme targeting the 
planting of three million trees over the next three years , representing 
each of our 3 million citizens ;  
10 
 • The systematic evaluation of sector vulnerability to climate change 
island wide , with the aim of developing initiatives to increase resilience ; 
• Further r esearch and development, as our own expert contribution in 
response to the 1.5° C target to provide analys is and guiding policy 
directions regionally and globally ; 
• The development of a revised and updated National Climate Change 
Policy Framework that will improve our efforts to implement the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement . 
• The strengthening of Jamaica´s readiness for climate finance through 
initiatives that identify strategic areas for further climate action ; 
• The development of a domestic transparency framework and system 
to strengthen our capacity to meet the transparency requirements 
under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement . 
 
Madam e President,  
11 
 These initiatives are only a few of the overall national efforts and 
contributions of Jamaica to scale climate action . For us, climate change is 
not an academic issue, it is a reality and climate action must be urgently 
scaled up by everyone . 
This is also why we have begun the process towards updating and producing 
a more ambitious NDC to be completed in early 2020 . 
 
We hope that by leading by example , we will inspire and encourage other 
countries to enhance their ambition . Our only ambition is to raise 
ambition . 
 
In closing , I wish to stress the importance of three reports that were recently 
produced by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC ) and 
that are of significant importance for all countries but even more so for small 
island developing states . The first is the Special Report on the impact of 
12 
 global warming of 1.5°C above pre -industrial level s, the second is the report 
on Oceans and the Cryosphere in a Changing Climate and the third is on 
Climate Change and Land . 
These report s present the scientific evidence -based findings that we can 
expect in a warmer world. 
We are not here to discuss science . We are here because w e refuse to 
miss the opportunity as Part y to the Convention to leave a legacy that is only 
words and not enough action and time is running out for us to do that. 
Jamaica therefore anticipate s the collective , meaningful, pragmatic, 
ambitious and sustained action from Parti es at this COP25 and not later. 
 
Finally , let me once again extend our sincerest gratitude on behalf of the 
Jamaican Delegation to COP 25, the Government and people of Jamaica to 
the Government and People of Spain for welcoming and hosting us in Madrid 
13 
 and wish for the Government and people of Chile, a successful outcome for 
COP25.  The time to act is Now!  
 
December  2019 