1 
 
 
 
JAMAICA’S NATIONAL STATEMENT TO THE HIGH -LEVEL SEGMENT OF 
THE TWENTY SECOND SESSION OF THE MEETING OF THE CONFERENCE 
OF THE PARTIES T O THE UNITED NATION S FRAMEWORK CONVEN TION 
ON CLIMATE CHANGE 
 
 
 
15TH NOVEMBER 2016 
 
 2 
 
Salutations 
 
Mr. President, 
Please accept Jamaica’s heartiest congratulations and best wishes 
on your chairmanship of this Conference. 
I also express our sincere appreciation to the G overnment and 
people of the Kingdom of Morocco , for the excellent facilities and w arm 
hospitality afforded u s. 
As a small island state, Jamaica finds itself looking ahead each 
year w ith some trepidation , to the anticipated hurricane season. We 
do so because , increasingly, these occurrences are more threatening 
and more damaging in impact. Against this backgrou nd, we are in deep 
sympathy with the governments and people s of Haiti, Cuba , The 3 
 Bahamas and the United States of America , for losses sustained as a 
result of the passage of Hurricane Matthew this year .  
These developments are potent evidence of the negat ive impacts 
of climate change. Like other small island developing states, Jamaica is 
vulnerable to the effects of sea -level rise, severe weather events, 
changes in rainfall pattern s and increase s in temperatures. 
In addition to experienc ing more intense t ropical storms and 
hurricanes, our countries are subject to more incidents of damage due 
to flooding, longer periods of , and more severe droughts , and 
increasing cases of vector -borne disease s transmitted mainly by the 
aedes a egypt i mosquito. 
 Mr. Presiden t, an increase in the number of tropical cyclone s 
since 2004 has also caused severe damage to our infrastructure and has 
reduced our GDP considerably. The delivery of potable water to 
Jamaican households was also severely hampered over the past few 
years , due to one of the worst droughts in the island’s history. These 4 
 drought conditions also affected the health and agriculture sector s; the 
latter being mainly rain -fed, increasing the cost of production to 
farmer s, as well as to consumers , who had to pay hig her prices for 
agricultural products. 
For these reasons, Mr. President, my country is committed, 
together with our CARICOM brothers an d sisters, to the process which 
has been underway through the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change , to se ek international agreement to hal t, and even 
reverse the adverse effects of climate change . 
The entry in to force of the Paris Agreement on 4thNovember , and 
the co nvening here , in Marrakesh , of this first Conference of Parties 
serving as the Meeting of the Parties of the Paris Agreement , are major 
milestones on the road to developing a low carbon, climate resilient 
world. Jamaica is proud of the leadership role i t has played to get us 
this far, and I wish to assure this august body that Jamaica remains fully 5 
 committed to ratification of the Paris Agreement. To this end, we are 
working assiduously on the requisite domestic procedures. 
We are also conscious that with the adoption of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development in September 2015, a global framew ork 
has emerged to address the multiplicity of issues , including climate -
related concerns, affecting the growth and development of all our 
countries and the well -being of our peoples . 
Mr. President, c limate change is a developmental issue of global 
proport ion that , in many cases, requires solutions which are beyond the 
efforts of many developing countries . Small island developing states 
are challenged . Mr. President, those of us which are also Highly 
Indebted Middle Income countries are even moreso . For us, urgent 
action, i ncreased support and creative solutions are a must. 
This Marrakesh Meeting is therefore an opportunity to 
consolidate the progress made , and accelerate action on climate 6 
 change. For small island developing states, adaptation to climate 
change is a lso critical . 
Jamaica continue s to build resilience in our systems through a 
rigorous national adaptation planning process , but our c ontinued 
progress can only be realized through the stren gthened global 
partnerships , which we expect to result from our meeting s here this 
week. 
We look forward therefore, to a scaling -up of ambition in limiting 
temperature increases to well below 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-
industrial levels; increased levels of, and simplified access, to climate 
financing with a strong focus on adaptation for developing countries ; 
the use of innovative mechanisms such as debt for climate change 
swaps ; and the full acceptance of the Warsaw International Mechanism 
for Loss and Damage.  
This conference is a further call to action for us to be decisive in 
the agreements reached, innovative in solutions proposed, and thereby 7 
 hold ourselves accountable to future generations. It is time for action 
and I urge us to boldly seize the moment . 
Thank you . 