 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF SENATOR THE HONORABLE MATTHEW SAMUDA, 
MINISTER WITHOUT PORTFOLIO WITH RESPONSIBILITY 
FOR WATER , THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC GROWTH AND JOB CREATION 
TO THE HIGH -LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE 
28TH CONFERENCE OF PARTIES (COP 28) TO THE 
UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC) 
 
 
 
(WEBSITE VERSION ) 
 
 
 
 
 
I am pleased to present Jamaica’s views to the High -Level Segment of the 28th 
Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC. 
 
I stand before you on behalf of the resilient people of Jamaica, amidst the breath taking 
city of Dubai, at the heart of COP28. We extend our sincere gratitude to the United 
Arab Emirates for hosting this pivotal gathering and we acknowledge the COP 
President, Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, as it is under his mandate we hope to t ruly “Unite, Act 
and Deliver”. This is a theme Jamaica endorses as it emphasizes our collective 
responsibility in the face of the ever -escalating climate crisis. 
 
Mr President, 
COP28 is unique and historic in many ways most significant of these, are the Day one 
L&D breakthrough lead by the UAE, the inclusion of health and Climate Change, 
against the backdrop of the Global Stock Take. 
 
Mitigation 
Jamaica reaffirms its commitment to ambitious mitigation efforts. Recognizing the 
urgency, we pledge, as outlined in our NDCs, to accelerate our transition to renewable 
energy sources, targeting approximately 30 percent reduction in carbon emissions by 
2030. This we will achieve by the transition of our energy production from a fossil fuel 
base and move our renewable contribution from 18% currently to 50% by 2030. We 
have also commenced the Electrification of our government fleet starting with 100 
buses to be delivered in 2024 with other sectors to follow. 
 
The added impact of improvement of air quality and other health related benefits will 
be the subject of our national statement at COP29 as the implementation of new air 
quality regulations and monitoring were completed in 2023. We implore the global 
commun ity to bolster international cooperation, facilitating the transfer of green 
technologies to developing nations and call for the phase out of fossil fuel as a priority. 
 
Adaptation 
Adaptation is the cornerstone of our resilience strategy. The vulnerable Small Island 
Developing States, like Jamaica, bear the disproportionate burden of climate impacts.  
 We call for increased support to enhance our adaptive capacity, especially in the areas 
of water resource management, agriculture, health and infrastructure. Keeping in mind 
that 2023 is currently on track to be the hottest year on record as stated by the 
Provisional State of the Global Climate Report 2023 by the WMO, underscores the 
urgent need for increased adaptation action. Moreover Kingston may just have lived 
up to the Climate Departure predictions of 2015 which signify the importance of 
greening our cities as adaptation strategy. As a part of our safeguard strategy, 
Jamaica is now preparing its National Adaptation Plan and we are exploring initiatives 
at the local and sub -national levels. It is imperative that adaptation financing must be 
the high point of COP28 and becomes more accessible and tailored to the specific 
needs of the most vulnerable. 
 
Loss and Damage Fund 
Jamaica is pleased to know that the Loss and Damage Fund (has been 
established/accepted) is operationalised, we thank those who have contributed. The 
impacts of climate change are increasingly evident in our communities, causing 
irreparable harm. We urge o thers to contribute to the fund that will assist developing 
countries in coping with the unavoidable consequences of climate change, including 
addressing the displacement of communities and the loss of biodiversity. Until the fund 
is fully funded and opera tionalised Jamaica calls for consideration to be given to the 
facilitation of an emergency compensation mechanism for the 20? Most impacted 
countries to receive well needed assistance immediately. 
 
Finance 
Without adequate financing, the aspirations of the Paris Agreement remain elusive. 
Jamaica urges developed nations to fulfill their commitment to mobilize $100 billion 
annually, with a substantial portion allocated to adaptation efforts. We also advocate 
for innovative financing mechanisms and the inclusion of the private sector in climate 
finance initiatives to diversify funding sources. 
 
Policy 
Jamaica is proud to announce the recent revision of its national climate change policy 
framework and approval for an emissions policy framework. These will be supported by a long -term climate change strategy for 2050. We emphasize the need for coherent 
and comprehensive policies that integrate climate considerations across all sectors. 
This includes mainstreaming climate -smart agriculture, sustainable tourism practices, 
and resilient urban planning. In addition we urge that climate change impacts on 
Oceans and Education be included in the critical areas for mainstreaming attention. 
 
Mr President, 
 
New Innovation 
Innovation is our lifeline. We applaud the strides made in green technology and urge 
for increased investment in research and development. Jamaica supports initiatives 
that promote climate -resilient innovation, particularly in areas such as sustainable 
agriculture, renewable energy, and climate -resilient infrastructure. 
 
Climate Action 
Jamaica is not merely a spectator in the fight against climate change; we are active 
participants. We are scaling up our climate action plans, promoting community -based 
initiatives including the active engagement in the development of early warning 
systems , and using the hard won fiscal gains over the past 5 years to create the fiscal 
space for a continuous line of mitigation and adaptation projects. fostering a culture of 
environmental stewardship. We encourage all nations to adopt a similar approach, 
recognizing that collective action is the only way forwar d. 
 
Jamaica has focussed its attention throughout COP28 to secure and sign partnerships 
and welcomes addition al partnerships to include technical assistance to strengthen its 
capacity needs. 
 
Let us remember that the decisions made here at COP28 will resonate for generations 
to come. We stand at a crossroad, and the choices we make today will shape the 
destiny of our planet. Let us rise above our differences, unite in purpose, and forge a 
path towards a sustainable and resilient future. 
 
Finally, let me once again extend Jamaica’s gratitude to the Government and People 
of the United Arab Emirates and wish for continued successful outcome for COP28.  
COP28 is bringing the world together to Unite, Act and Deliver. 
 
Thank you. 
 