
○ Mr. President, Honorable Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, 
○ First of all, allow me to congratulate the President of COP24 , Mr. 
Michel Kurtyka , and express my appreciation for his leadership. I also 
deeply thank the Republic of Poland for hosting this critically important 
meeting for all. 

○ As indicated by the latest scientific findings, the whole world needs to 
take more robust actions in order to achieve the 2-degree goal and 
pursue efforts toward the 1.5-degree goal. Therefore, we need action 
now to complete the Paris Agreement Work Programme . We highlight 
special importance on the 3 items ; first information necessary to allow 
NDCs to be fully understood , and second, a common transparency 
framework allowing flexibility for those developing country Parties that 
need it in light of their capacity . 
Thirdly, market mechanism is an essential element of the Katowice 
Rulebook to raise mitigation ambition.  We must not leave the Article 
6 as the “an orphan of Katowice.” 

 To this end, Japan proactively contributes to negotiation s and leads 
the world in deca rbonization with our advanced technology and 
scientific knowledge . 
○ Today , climate actions are no longer costs, but rather, a source of 
competitiveness. As the presidency of the G20 in 2019, Japan will 
become a model for the world in the achievement of a virtuous cycle 
between the environment and growth. Aiming to achieve 
decarbonization as well as the SDGs, Japan has developed a future 
vision called "Circula ting and Ecological Economies - localizing 
SDGs." Japan will build self-reliant and decentralized communities, 
while ensuring a high quality of life for the future and a shift to a 
sustainable society . 

○ We will continue to support all the parties to be on board to tackle 
climate change with finance, capacity building and technology 
development and transfer. We will also steadily fulfill the pledge of 1.3 
trillion yen in financial support in 2020 . 
○  The GCF plays a particularly important role for the operationalization 
of Paris Agreement. We welcome the decision on the commencement 
of the GCF replenishment process. Also, we have nominated Mr. 
Kenichi SUGANUMA, Ambassador, Representative of the 
Government of Japan for Climate Change as a candidate for the next 3 
 Executive Director of the GCF, which is the manifestation of our 
commitment to the strong engagement with the GCF. 
○ Transparency is key for the Paris Agreement implementation . Japan 
successfully launched the GHG observing satellite “GOSAT -2” this 
October. GOSAT -2 has the world’s first function for measuring 
anthropogenic CO 2 emissions and contribute s to improvement in the 
accuracy of GHG invento ries. 
○ We welcome the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C . 
Japan is going to host the 49th session of the IPCC Plenary in Kyoto 
next year. 
○ Japan will also support developing countries in adaptation plans and 
their implementation , and contribute to the achievement of the Aichi 
Biodiversity Targets by promoting the Satoyama Initiative. 
○ On mitigation, Japan disseminates our advanced technologies 
through the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) for facilitating 
decarbonization business . 

○ According to the latest figures of 2017, Japan has been reducing GHG 
emissions for recent consec utive 4 years. Japan is steadily 
implementing measures to achieve 26% GHG emission s reduction by 
2030 , and aims to achieve 80% reduction of GHG s by 2050 as a long-
term target while pursuing both the promotion of climate change 4 
 actions and economic growth. Japan will formulate a long-term low 
GHG emission development strategy as a growth strategy. 
○ Japan will promote innovations and green finance, and mainstream 
ESG finance for decarbonization across all sectors , includ ing 
vehicles, houses and buildings. We are also looking at establish ing a 
hydrogen society , and making renewable energy the major power 
source . 
○ Along with addressing the amendment of the Montreal Protocol, we 
proactively implement measures to reduce HFC emissions . 

○ To achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement , we must take actions 
immediately. Let us tackle this momentous challenge for humankin d 
together . 
 