COP26 World Leader’s Summit 
Statement by Prime Minister K ISHIDA Fumio 
 
At the outset , let me start by commend ing my friend, Boris, for his 
leadership in hosting th e COP 26 . 
 
I have come all the way to Glasgow to convey my own determination that 
Japan will be work ing in full force to take on climate change, a common 
challenge of humankind. 
 
Six years have passed since the adoption of the Paris Agreement. 
 
At that time, under the leadership of then President Laurent Fabius, we had 
renewed our resolve . We must not forget that very moment. 
 
“Fumio, I really want to give this to you .” To this day, I have been keeping 
and cherishing the gavel that my friend Laurent presented to me as a 
testament to my own resolution to confront the climate issue seriously. 
 
To achieve our goal, this coming decade will be critical. 
Together, with high ambition s, let us do all we can going forward ! 
 
“Net -zero by 2050”; 
Japan will realize this goal under our newly adopted Long -term Strategy.  
I assure that Japan aims to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 46% in 
the fiscal year 2030 from its fiscal year 2013 levels , and that Japan will 
continue strenuous efforts in its challenge to meet the lofty goal of cutting its 
emission s by 50% . 
 
Mr. President , 
To bring about a decarbonized society , Japan will introduc e renewable 
energy as much as possible , and lead the way in the clean energy transition, 
with a particular focus on Asia. 
 
Since solar power plays a major role in the transition to renewables in Asia, to help stabiliz e electrical frequency in the region , converting existing 
thermal power generations into zero -emission power generation is a 
necessary path. 
 
To this end, Japan, t hrough the Asia Energy Transition Initiative, will develop 
leading projects worth 100 million USD to transform fossil -fuel-fired 
thermal power into zero -emission thermal power such as ammonia and 
hydrogen . 
 
Developed countries are collectively committed to the 100 billion USD per 
year goal of climate finance. However, we have not yet achieved this target. 
 
In order to lead the initiative in fulfilling this financial gap, today, I am 
pleased to announce our additional contribution. 
 
Japan announc ed last June our contribution to provide support worth 60 
billion USD, both in public and private finance, in the next five years. 
 
On top of that, Japan will provide up to 10 billion USD in the coming five 
years, which would include our contribution to th e launch of Innovative 
Financial Facility for Climate as we partner with the Asian Development 
Bank and others to support the decarbonization of Asia and beyond. 
 
Together with Boris, Japan will call on other developed countries to join us 
in our collective effort s. 
 
Capitalizing on these initiatives , Japan will press onward to undertake efforts 
toward net -zero emissions in Asia, the engine of global economic growth. 
 
With an aim to realizing a future where vehicles, the world’s essentials, will 
become zero emission , Japan will take advantage of all the available option s 
of technologies . 
 By utilizing our own 2 trillion yen Green Innovation Fund, Japan will 
develop next-generation batteries and motors, hydrogen, and synthetic fuels, 
which all hold the key to the spread of electric vehicles. 
While spreading the fruits of these innovations across Asia , Japan will 
spearhead global efforts . 
 
Furthermore, Japan will be participati ng in the Global Methane Pledge. 
 
As we are moving forward in the transition to decarbonization, the ongoing 
issue of rising energy prices also calls for our joint discussions among 
leaders to meet the challenge . 
 
For adaptation to climate change , Japan will double our assistance to 
approximately 14 .8 billion US D such as in the area of disaster risk 
reduction . 
Concer ning global forestry conservation, I hereby announce that Japan will 
provide financial assistance worth approximately 240 million US D, 
utilizing advanced technologies and working in collaboration with the 
international organizations. 
 
No one must be left behind as we confront the issue of climate change. 
Japan will dedicate all its strength to undertake actions and contribute to the 
future of human kind. 
 
Thank you. 