 
 COP28 World Climate Action Summit 
Statement by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio 
 
 
At COP28, we will conclude the first ever Global Stocktake. However, the 
world is not yet on the pathway to 1.5 degrees. In order to make a course 
correction, our action until 2030 is critical. 
Achieving the global goal of net-zero by 2050, setting the economy -wide 
absolute reduction target covering all greenhouse gases and peaking global 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 are all required. 
 
Japan aims to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 46 percent by 2030, 
and will continue strenuous efforts in its challenge to meet the lofty goal 
of cutting its emission by 50 percent. Japan has already achieved a 
reduction of approximately 20%, Japan’s reduction is on track. 
 
As affirmed at the G7 Hiroshima Summit, it is time for all countries to aim 
to achieve the common goal of net-zero, through various pathways that 
are compatible with economic growth and energy security. Let us all do so 
together. 
 
Japan will implement its growth -oriented carbon pricing concept based on 
the GX Promotion Act. Next year, we will issue the world's first national 
transition bond with international certification. We will accelerate GX, 
which simultaneously achieves the three goals of emission reduction, 
stable energy supply, and economic growth, thereby contributing to global 
decarbonization. In Asia, we are working with countries under the 
framework of the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) and will hold 
our first summit meeting this month. 
 
Japan will implement thorough energy conservation, and intends to 
achieve maximum deployment of clean energy through making renewable 
energy as the main source of power, utilizing nuclear power and other 
measures. We have a proven record as the world's third largest solar energy 
provider. In this context, Japan endorses the Presidency's collective goal 
of tripling renewable energy capacity and doubling the global average  
 annual rate of energy efficiency improvements. 
 
At the same time, we aim to create globally a just and sustainable business 
environment to diversify the clean energy supply chain. 
 
On unabated coal power plants, they should be addressed by each country 
in the course of the respective pathways to net-zero, reflecting national 
circumstances. In line with its pathway to net-zero, Japan will end new 
construction of domestic unabated coal power plants, while securing a 
stable energy supply. 
 
Our commitment to mobilize up to approximately $70 billion USD climate 
finance from both public and private is also on track. 
 
Further, Japan is ready to contribute to the expansion of lending capacity 
totaling approximately $9 billion through the provision of credit 
enhancements to the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. We 
will also make contributions to the new fund of the African Development 
Bank. 
 
Japan will dedicate itself to undertaking actions on climate change which 
is our common agenda in cooperation with other countries and leading the 
efforts of the international community.  
 
Thank you. 
 
 