Statement by Mr. Kouichi Yamamoto, Minister of the
Environment Japan
Thank you, Mr. President and distinguished delegates.
Let me express my sincere gratitude to Morocco for the
excellent leadership as the COP22 Presidency.
I would like to welcome the early entry into force of the Paris
Agreement and express my great respect for the efforts and
passion of all Parties.
Also, Japan welcomes the Kigali Amendment and the agreement
at the ICAO in the process between Paris and Marrakech.
Japan has actively expressed its position to support the early
entry into force of the Paris Agreement at various occasions
including Leaders’ Declaration in G7 Ise-Shima Summit. We
deposited its instrument of acceptance of the Paris Agreement to
the secretary general of United Nations on the 8th of this month. I
am pleased to celebrate its entry into force with all Parties here
in Marrakech.
The world has shifted its course towards the goal of achieving a
balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and
removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this
century. We have to build a prosperous and resilient society in
cooperation with the international community by promoting
integrated measures towards this goal. This is also consistent
with SDGs. Japan is going to play a central role in this.
Discussion on the rulebook of the Paris Agreement has started
this year. Japan places emphasis especially on the
implementation of the mechanism which allows each Party to
enhance their reduction efforts in a transparent and effective
way. We promise to contribute to the process of rule-making,
drawing upon our experiences and knowledge.
It is the Cabinet’s top priority to take countermeasures against
global warming. The cabinet decided “the Plan for Global
Warming Countermeasures in May this year, which sets the
target of 26% reduction by 2030. Japan will lead the
international community so that major emitters undertake
emission reductions in the light of respective capabilities, and
aim to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050 as a
long-term goal, while pursuing economic growth.
Japan will implement the Plan which includes the energy mix
consistent with this target and the promotion of the national
campaign “Cool Choice” in order to achieve this target by 2030.
With regard to adaptation, Japan has strengthened the measures
within the government as a whole, such as establishment of
platform for supporting adaptation actions of each actor under
the national adaptation plan.
Furthermore, as Japan committed in the G7 Ise-Shima
Leaders’Declaration, we will prepare long-term low greenhouse
gas emission development strategy.
We will enhance R&D of innovative and promising
technologies, in the area of energy and environment, which are
not a mere extension of the existing efforts. Through long-term
and strategic approaches, such as social implementation of these
technologies and transformation of social structure and lifestyles,
we will contribute to the reduction of global GHG emissions.
Japan will work towards delivering our pledge, 1.3 trillion yen
in 2020, as Prime Minister Abe announced last year, to support
developing countries in their efforts to tackle climate change.
To ensure implementation of the Paris Agreement, Japan will
enhance technology development and dissemination, and
capacity building in developing countries, including the support
for implementation of NDCs, while also considering the support
for CBIT. We will do so by taking advantage of our prominent
technologies and knowledge, in cooperation with international
community and civil society and industrial sectors.
Based on the new initiative announced recently, we will further
promote activities under the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM)
which has so far resulted in 101 projects with 16 countries, and
support the enhancement of adaptation capacity by building
infrastructures of climate risk information in the Asia pacific
region. These are all well-grounded forms of cooperation based
on the needs of developing countries.
Japan also places great emphasis on the measures for
fluorocarbons. In response to the Kigali Amendment of
Montreal protocol, Japan will begin considering domestic
actions. Building upon our experience, we will support
developing countries in their efforts to reduce emissions
throughout the lifecycle of products including collection and
destruction and to prepare an inventory which is fundamental to
their fluorocarbon measures.
In my capacity as Parliamentary Vice-Minister of the
Environment, I was involved in the process of Kyoto Protocol
adoption at COP3 in Kyoto. That experience formed a basis of
my work as a politician. I consider environmental policy
formulation as my life work. Therefore, I feel overwhelmed to
see the Paris Agreement enter into force and realize that the
political leadership in the efforts against climate change will be
ever more important. Japan is committed to fulfilling its due
responsibilities and to playing a central role for the future.
Thank you for your kind attention.