I would like to first express my deep thanks and appreciation to my brother 
His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed and the United Arab Emirates for 
successfully organising this international summit. 
 
My friends: 
 
This year’s Conference of the Parties must recognise , more than ever , 
that we cannot talk about climate change in isolation from the humanitarian 
tragedies unfolding around us . 
 
As we speak, the Palestinian people are facing an immediate threat to 
their l ives and wellbeing. In Gaza, over 1.7 million Palestinians have been 
displaced from their homes. Tens of thousand s have been injured or killed. 
 
In a region already on the frontlines of climate change, the massive 
destruction of war makes the environmental threats of water scarcity and food 
insecurity even more severe . 
 
In Gaza —where people are living with little clean water; and the bare 
minimum of food supplies —climate threats magnify the devastation of war. 
 
So, my friends, as we meet here today to talk about inclusivity in climate 
response , let’s be inclusive of the most vulnerable : 
Palestinians , severely impacted by the war on Gaza. 
Populations around the world , affected by conflict and poverty . 
And r efugee families and host communities , in our region and beyond . 
To address the real danger of food insecurity in Gaza, Jordan has brought 
together all international partners to coordinate on mechanisms for the 
sustainable provision of food supplies to the Strip. 
 
And as a country where refugees make up over a third of our 
population —we launched the Climate -Refugee Nexus last year. This global 
initiative prioritises climate -related support and investments for refugee -
hosting nations. We are grateful for the 58 countries that have supported this 
initiative so far. But much more needs to be done. 
 
My friends, 
 
Jordan contributes a slim 0.06 percent to global greenhouse gases , yet, 
we are greatly impacted by global climate change, which has caused threats 
to our scarce water resources, food sources , and eco -diversity. 
 
Today, Jordan’s most ambitious and vital projects relate to water. A 
major national water project envisions desalinating Red Sea water from the 
Gulf of Aqaba and channelling it to major population areas . 
 
The National Water Conveyance Project will rely on renewable 
energy — a field where we have made significant strides . Our National Energy 
Strategy aims to generate 31 percent of elec tricity from renewables by 2030 . 
Hybrid and electric vehicles represent 18 percent of our transport system. 
 
In other climate action, research at the Aqaba Marine Park will explore 
the unique resilience of the Red Sea’s coral reefs to benefit the con servation 
and regeneration of coral reefs around the world. I look forward to attending 
an event tomorrow on -board the Ocean Xplorer vessel to highlight this 
initiative. 
 
Nationally, with a strong talent pool of young entrepreneurs and 
qualified engineers , we are pressing forward with solutions in climate -smart 
agriculture, water conservation, clean energy innovations, and more . Some of 
our innovators are showcasing their work here at COP28. 
 
Jordan also launched its Green Finance Strategy, the first in the region, 
and we issued our first green bond earlier this year. 
 
So, my friends, 
Despite the challenges, Jordan has set an example in the region as a 
climate -action pioneer and is emerging as a green tech hub. 
 
Yet, just as t he impact of climate change does not take place in a 
vacuum —no country’s response succeeds alone . 
 
The Global Stocktake has shown us that our world is still far behind in 
achieving the goals set by the Paris Agreement. 
 
As we work to catch up on lost time and progress , we cannot forget the 
most vulnerable . 
 
Conflict -ridden communities, refugees, and developing countries must 
not be left alone to face a global problem. Nor can we stand by , as the massive 
destruction of a relentless war in Gaza threatens more people and holds back 
progress toward a better global future. 
 
Current and future generations will hold us accountable. 
 
Allow me to conclude by expressing, once again, my thanks to my 
brother His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed for the United Arab 
Emirates’ innovative role in galvanising international efforts to counter the 
impact of climate change on our world. 
 
Thank you. 