
First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the People
and Government of Morocco for holding the Climate Conference
in this beautiful city of Marrakech. I also want to congratulate
everyone with the historical event — the Paris Agreement has
already entered into force.

As a coal and oil rich country we hold the 8" place on coal
and 12 on oil reserves in the world respectively. In terms of oil
production, we are planning to achieve 1,6 million barrels per day.
80 percent of electricity in Kazakhstan is generated by coal—
powered stations.

 However, we understand our liability to the world community.
We are facing the impacts of global warming today. Therefore, we
set up a national target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to
15% by 2030. We intend to reach this goal through concrete
actions at the national level and via international cooperation.

I would like to inform you that on November 4" our President
signed a Law on Paris Agreement ratification. We are supportive
to cooperative and logical implementation of the Sustainable
Development Goals and Paris Agreement at the national, regional
and international levels.

Kazakhstan was the first country in the Central Asia adopting
the Concept of transition to green economy. It has the following
goals:
- Reduction of the GDP energy intensity to 25% by 2020 van to 
50 % by 2050;
- Increase of alternative and renewable energy sources in the
energy balance to 3% by 2020 and to 50% by 2050.
Nowadays Kazakhstan has an optimal intsitutional and legislative
base for low-carbon development. We have adopted the laws 
supporting renewables, energy saving and energy efficiency.

We believe that mechanisms provided by the Paris
Agreement will help us achieve our goals.

Our President Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev has proposed three
international initiatives to accelerate technology transfer:

- First, “Green Bridge” Partnership Program, adopted at
Rio plus 20 and dedicated to technology transfer from the
developed to developing countries;

- Second, hosting the EXPO-2017 exhibition and

- Finally, establishing the International Center on Green
Technologies under the UN auspices.

Next year in June, EXPO-2017 with the topic “Future
Energy” will be opened in Astana. This platform will unite the
world community to share experience and knowledge in the field
of “clean” energy and will help developing advanced low-carbon
technologies. We will be glad, if you are able to come to
Kazakhstan and visit EXPO, deliver your new visions and creative
ideas.

Our third initiative presented at the 70th session of the
United Nations General Assembly is to launch the International
Center for green technologies and investments in Astana; and we
hope you will support it. The Center will be aimed to promote
principles and standards of green growth.

We believe that these contributions and efforts will allow us
to continue discussions on developing rules and mechanisms for
the Paris Agreement implementation at the next climate 
conferences.

Kazakhstan is undergoing a transition from one of tne
world’s biggest hydrocarbon energy producers to a model of
“green” economy. Putting forward international initiatives on
sustainable development and transferring clean technologies we
can ensure that Kazakhstan and Central Asian countries have the
capability to combat the adverse impacts of climate change,
unlock green growth and develop sustainable economies.

Thank you for your attention!


