I would like to start by reaffirming Kazakhstan’s solid 
and continued commitment to the goals and objectives of the 
Paris Agreement . 
As you know, our country has set out the ambitious 
target of achieving Net Zero by 2060 . 
As part of this, we are planning to adopt our first-ever 
Low-Carbon Development Strategy by the end of this year. 
This will mark a historic moment: the first time a country 
in Central Asia has laid out such an ambitious document. 
This strategy will update our Nationally Determined 
Contributions : in it we will pledge to achieve an 
unconditional 15% reduction of our carbon emissions by 
2030 . We have also set a conditional target of 25% that 
relies on the possibility of additional support from 
international partner s. 
Currently, “green” energy represents 3% of 
Kazakhstan’s total energy supply. 
We have set a target of increasing our renewable 
energy supply to 15% – that is at least 7 additional 
gigawatts by 2030 . 
Kazakhstan has the potential to be a global green 
energy powerhouse. 
Therefore, we are ready to act as a regional hub for 
renewables and to drive Central Asia’s green transition. 
 
Green hydrogen will play a key role in this transition. 
International experts believe that our country can 
become one of the ten largest hydrogen exporters . 
In addition, Kazakhstan has a unique role to play in the 
global energy transition, thanks to its significant reserves of 
critical raw materials and elements. 
Our country holds more than 60 major deposits of 
precious and non -ferrous metals . 
We stand ready to offer these critical resources for 
exploration and development . 
As well as investing in the future of the energy transition, 
we are also taking urgent action to mitigate our carbon 
emissions. 
Underpinning this effort, the National Emissions 
Trading System has already proved to be an effective 
mechanism for stimulating innovations in both emissions 
reduction and energy efficiency. 
Separately, I would like to mention the importance of 
technological modernization . There is a critical need to 
leverage knowle dge-sharing and technology -transfer, 
including within the Paris Agreement. 
Therefore , we are developing a framework which will 
help Kazakhstan to adapt the best available practices from 
around the world in green technologies. 
At the same time, we are devoting special attention to 
stimulating green investment . 
 
We are prepared to use the Astana International 
Financial Center as a unique regional investment hub for 
green finance. 
 
Dear participants ! 
 
Today, the temperature in Central Asia is increasing 
twice as fast as the global average .  
To meet the urgent demands created by rapid global 
warming, we have significant adaptation efforts underway 
within our new Environmental Code. 
The focus is on the four most vulnerable sectors: water, 
agriculture, forestry and disaster risk reduction. 
Last year, we joined the Declaration on Forests and 
Land Use and the Commitment to Education and Youth 
Involvement. 
We are also on track to meet our ambitious target of 
planting 2 billion trees by 2025 . 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen ! 
 
To conclude , I would like once again to highlight the 
scale of the unprecedented challenges we face. 
In this regard, we require bold solutions, and 
development models that are fair, equitable, and sustainable. 
Kazakhstan is ready to collaborate with all international 
partners across the entire climate agenda. 
Thank you . 
 