I sincerely thank the Government and the people of Fiji for presiding
over this 23rd session of the conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC
(COP 23) – the first time for a Small Island Development State to
preside over the COP. Allow me also to extend our gratitude to the

Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for the warm hospitality
in the City of Bonn.
Kenya associates itself with the statements made by the Republic of
Gabon on behalf of the Committee of African Heads of State and
Government on Climate Change (CAHOSCC); Republic of Mali on behalf
of the African Group; and the Republic of Ecuador on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen:
The Bonn Climate Change Conference is being held in the backdrop of
the recent extreme weather events that have devastated the lives of
millions of people and caused damage to infrastructure across the globe.
I would like, on behalf of the Government and the people of Kenya, to
empathise with all states and communities that have been adversely
affected. These are clear indicators that we must act together to address
climate change, lest we perish together.
Kenya looks forward to a concerted multilateral engagement towards the
implementation of the Paris Agreement in a manner that reflects equity
and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and
respective capabilities, in light of different national circumstances, and in
the context of sustainable development. Finalization of the
implementation guidelines of the Agreement by 2018 should be in a
comprehensive, balanced and coherent manner addressing mitigation,
adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, and capacity
building.
We welcome the global response to climate change through the
nationally determined contributions that Parties to the Agreement will
undertake and communicate. Further, Kenya supports the
operationalization of the Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss and
Damage. We hope that this will lead to useful tools and methods to
address the needs and special circumstances of developing countries
that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.
We also appreciate the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action
Agenda that enhances pre-2020 ambition and fosters the linkages
between climate action and the sustainable development goals.
Excellencies, ladies and Gentlemen:
Kenya aspires to achieve its development agenda through a low carbon
and climate resilient development pathway. To this end, our Climate
Change Act, 2016, provides the legal framework for the mainstreaming
of climate change actions into policy, planning, budgeting and
implementation at national and sub-national levels. Climate change
actions are currently being considered under the medium-term planning
process to implement Vision 2030, which guides the implementation of
our NDC. Adaptation actions are a priority, particularly in view of the
increasing frequency and intensity of extreme climate and weather
events. Implementation of these national climate actions requires
international support in form of finance, technology development and
transfer, and capacity building.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In conclusion, Kenya views the Climate Convention as the primary global
framework for collective global action in addressing climate change and
therefore expects the Paris Agreement work programme to advance with
a clear road map.
I thank you.