1 
 
 
Statement  
by 
 His Excellency Taneti Maamau 
President of the Republic of Kiribati 
 
CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES 27  
 7-21 NOVEMBER 2022, EGYPT  
2 Mr President,  
Excellencies,  
Distinguished delegates , 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
I begin by sharing the peace and blessings of the Almighty , and the warm 
greetings of the Government and people of Kiribati . Kam na bane ni 
mauri . 
 
 
 3 Mr President , 
I acknowledge the Government and the people of Egypt for the warm 
hospitality and commend the exceptional leadership in hosting this action -
oriented COP 27. 
 
It is indeed a critical time for us to be more ambitious in implementing the 
Paris Agreement with solutions premised on bolster ing the resilience of our 
people s against the adverse impact of climate change .  
 
It has been 30 years since the inception of UNFCCC and it is disheartening 
to see that some continue to use this process to pursue their own political 4 agendas , despite the science, some continue to block ambitious actions 
that could curb global emissions and develop effective solutions to address 
climate change impacts . Consequently, for frontline countries like Kiribati , 
this would be detrimental to our sovereign desire to safeguard our people. 
 
Climate change is happening, and loss and damage is very real. Yet the 
major solutions that we talk about remain distant as we are at the mercy of 
multilateral implementing agencies who continue to determine how we 
adapt and access financial resources . Nevertheless , we remain hopeful 
that our collective efforts and partnership will address these concerns. 
 5 We need data, capacity building and technology transfer, and country -
specific science projections to make our adaptation planning much more 
effective .  
 
Mr President, 
This year, Kiribati declared a state of disaster to manage and respond to 
the impact of severe drought with some of our islands frequently inundated 
by storm surges . The impact of extreme spring tides continues to be a 
threat to our economy, our future development and destroying the very 
fabrics of our livelihoods. 
 6 Despite these challenges, our commitment to building resilience is driven 
by the desire of the people to remain living in Kiribati.  We will continue to 
strengthen our legislative and policy frameworks including the recently 
enhanced Nationally Determined Contributions .  
 
The cost of maintaining our livelihoods in the face of climate change 
already exceeds our means, yet it does not dampen our resolve to put 
resources where we can. This is compounded by COVID -19 coupled with 
the inflation on commodities including fuel. The government will continue to 
invest in building resilience through a people -centred approach and social 
protection programs . 7 Mr. President 
I appeal to my fellow leaders to stand in solidarity to fight this climate 
dilemma for the brighter and resilient future of our young generation.  We 
must be held accountable to our climate finance commitment and achieve 
1.5 degree Celsius to save our shared HOME. Action begins HERE and 
NOW!!! 
 
Te Mauri Te Raoi ao te Tabomoa meanin g Health , Peace and Prosperity upon 
us all. 
 
Kam bati n rabwa, 