 
I am proud to bring to you the voice and warm Pacific greetings from the people of Kiribati, 
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ - Kam na bane ni mauri ! 
We have gone past the stage of debates - what we all agree d in Paris in 2015, is what 
this global family demonstrated in their various important commitments . Sadly though, w e 
continue to experience and witness the detrimental impacts of climate change, and we 
cannot afford any longer to wait – ACTIONS with IMPACT is a critical task of this twenty 
third session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC) . 
I want to make it very clear at the outset that my Government has decided to put aside 
the misleading and pessimistic scenar io of a sinking/deserted nation , and has replaced it 
with a bold scenario filled with great faith in the Mighty Hand , that made our islands , 
coupled with our people’s unwavering love for their home land , and great determination 
to fight and/or adapt to cli mate change , with the help and support of our international 
partners and the entire world community. To this end , my G overnment is calling on this 
Conference , to recognize the significance of this new policy as a platform for the Kiribati 
Government’s ambitious 20 year plan or KV20 , to build and develop the nation in the face 
of climate change –that focuses on harnessing our resources on fisheries and tourism . 
The continued conversation and predictions for Kiribati to sink in future are not only de-
empowering but also contradictory to our current efforts to build our islands and transform  
the lives of our people into a resilient, wealthy, healthy, and secured nation in line with 
our KV20.  
We all know that climate change is not only about science, but more importantly, it is 
about the people, in terms of their social values, ethics and morals.  In His inspiring 
message, His Holiness, Pope Francis reminded Pacific Leaders , and us all , of our shared 
responsibility , to take good care of Mother earth , to keep her safe, and to make sure that 
we leave behind the same kind of shared home , or even a better one , for our children and 
those who come after us.  
I sincerely applaud the Government and people of Germany for their extra pledge of 50 
million EUROs to the adaptation fund . The recent announcement of the GCF Simplified 
Approvals Process (SAP) for small scale projects , is greatly appreciated. Kiribati is also 
committed to integrate the principles of good governance to ensure transparency, efficient 
and accountable use of these resources, for the effective adaptation interventions and 
tangible results.  
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen ,  
 
As a “big atoll ocean state ”, the oceans play a critical part in sustainable develop ment, 
and in our daily lives , and I strongly join a call for oceans to form an integral part of the 
UNFCCC process. 
Mr. President, 
I wish to congratulate you for your able leadership in leading this historical COP 2 3 for 
the Pacific. I also take this opportunity to thank the Mayor and people of this historic city, 
the Government and people of Germany for the warm hospitality and welcome to our 
delegations. I would like to conclude by sharing with you all our traditional Kiribati 
blessings of Te Mauri, Te Raoi, ao Te Tabomoa, meaning he alth, peace and prosperity 
to us all. 
 

 