
At the outset I wish to thank the government of the United Kingdom and 
the government of Italy for convening this conference amid the current 
global epidemiological situation. 
 
Kyrgyzstan, like the rest of the world, is looking forward to the outcomes 
of the Glasgow summit. In recent years, our country’s environment and 
people have begun to suffer from the negative impacts of climate 
change. 
 
In this regard, let me reassure you that Kyrgyzstan is committed to the 
spirit and goals of the Paris Agreement. 
 
In spite of the difficulties in its implementation, we remain very optimistic. 
 
Kyrgyzstan will continue participating responsibly and fully in the global 
campaign to slow down climate c hange by implementing the Nationally 
Determined Contribution until 2030. 
 
Dear Heads of Delegations, 
 
By 2030 Kyrgyzstan aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by forty -
four percent (44%). 
 
Currently, our country's share in the global emission is negligib le, about 
zero point zero three percent (0.03%). 
 
The emissions’ nature is not industrial, but rather related to human 
activity.  
We estimate that the implementation of the necessary medium -term 
mitigation actions to cost 7 billion US dollars. 
 
By 2050, Kyrgyzstan aims to reach carbon -neutrality on the basis of 
green development. 
 
Renewable energy, especially hydropower, will be the driver of the 
carbon -free economic development. 
 
We intend to develop small and medium hydropower projects with a 
view of shifting industry, housing and utilities infrastructure to electricity 
consumption at the expense of the carbon -based energy sources, 
primarily coal and heating oil, without any negative impact on the 
environment. 
 
Presently, ten small and medium hydropowerplants are being 
constructed. Some of them have already been operational. The rest will 
be ready by the end of the next year. 
 
In acc ordance with the Paris Agreement spirit, I invite private investors 
from developed economies to cooperate with us in the hydropower 
sector, also using public -private partnership schemes. 
 
Without advanced technology, innovation and know -how transfer, timel y 
and simultaneous achievement of green economic growth and carbon 
neutrality in Kyrgyzstan will be difficult. 
 
In this regard, I call on all stakeholders, especially international 
multilateral banks, climate funds and corporations, to have serious 
discussion with us. 
 
Dear ladies and gentlemen, 
 
It is vital for Kyrgyzstan not only to preserve its ancient glaciers, water 
resources and celestial mountains from climate change, but also protect 
from abusive economic activities that unfortunately are the case in our 
country. In this regard, I urge the international community to work 
together against such unacceptable bus iness practices. 
 In areas of adaptation we are carrying out programs and projects in 
vulnerable sectors such as agriculture, water resources, energy, 
industry, disaster risk mitigation, public health, forests, and biodiversity. 
 
Given that ninety -four per cent (94%) of our territory is mountainous, the 
scope of work to be done is immense. 
 
We estimate adaptation measures to cost nearly 3 billion US dollars. 
 
 
Dear Summit participants! 
 
The described problems from the negative effects of climate change are 
in many ways common for mountainous countries. 
 
Their Governments, including that of Kyrgyzstan, may need donor 
assistance to address them. 
 
In this regard, we propose to foresee and i nclude in the Glasgow 
outcome decisions the targeted funding arrangements for developing 
mountainous countries in need of assistance. 
 
We propose under the auspices of the UN to establish a Special Fund to 
implement needs tailored adaptation programs with focus on the 
conservation of glaciers, forests and biodiversity, enhancing disaster risk 
preparedness, and socio -economic support to mountainous 
communities, especially women and children. 
 
In my opinion, the era of long and pretty speeches is over. It is time to 
act purposefully, consistently and effectively. 
 
In conclusion, I wish to stress that we can only solve our problems by 
working together. 
 
 
Thank you for your attention! 
 