 
 
  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
Peace Independence Democracy Unity Prosperity 
 
 
 
 
 
Statement by 
H.E. Bounkham Vorachit 
Minis ter of Natural Resources and Environment 
at the High -level Segment of the 
United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP2 8) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9th December 202 3 
Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. 
 
 
 
 
 Mr. President, 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
At the outset, o n behalf of the delegation of the Lao PDR, I would like to express 
our sincere appreciation to the Government of the United Arab Emirates for the 
hosting COP28 with excellent arrangements .  
 
Mr. President, 
 
Given the many pressing challenges of climate change , it is more crucial than ever 
that the international community must renew global commitment and further 
enhance cooperation, collaboration and partnership to address climate change and 
to support developing countries , especially the LDC to be more resilient and move 
toward s a low -carbon economy. 
 
Since the first Global Stocktake (GST) assessment , has showed that we are not on 
track to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. Therefore, we need to redouble 
our efforts to take climate actions forward in the right direction . We also urge the 
international community to realize the international commitment, particularly 
$100 billion in climate finance and to double adaptation finance for addressing 
loss and damage and other associated expenses and for meet ing the global climate 
challenge . 
 
In this connection , the Lao PDR welcome s the recent adopt ion of a decision that 
operationalizes the loss and damage fund and looks forward to its effective 
implementation . 
 
Mr. President , 
 
Although the Lao PDR is amongst the countries who contribute the least to global 
emission, like others we are the victims of climate change. Nevertheless, we are 
strongly committed ourselves to the international climate obligations. The Lao 
Government has developed and incorporat ed a series of policies and actions 
related to climate change into the country ’s development plans and strategies such 
as updated NDC and revised National Climate Change Strategy ,developing Low 
Emission Development Strategy , Carbon Market Decree as well as National 
Adaptation Plan (NAP) . 
 
In order to ensure the f ull and effective implementation of those plans and 
strategies , we need sufficient financial resources , technical assistance , better 
access to climate finance as well as affordable and appropriate technology and 
innovations . 
 
 
 Mr. President, 
 
At the regional level, the Lao PDR will carry out its ASEAN Chairmanship in 
2024 under the theme “ASEAN: Enhancing Connectivity and Resilience” . One of 
priority areas w ould be promoting environmental cooperation with a focus on 
climate resilience ; biodiversity conservation , and ; sustainable management of 
natural resources and cities among others. 
 
Mr. President , 
 
Let me conclude by reaffirming our commitment to the ambitious goals of the 
Paris Agreement and by stressing the importance of stronger international 
cooperation and collaboration on addressing climate change . I believe that, with 
our collective efforts and genuine partnership , we can accelerate the transition to 
a low -carbon economy and climate -resilient future. 
 
I thank you . 
 
 