 1 
 
 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
 
 
 
Statement by 
H.E Ms . BounkhamVorachit, Deputy Minister 
 Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment 
 of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic , at theUnited Nations 
Conference on Climate Change (COP24 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11-12 December 2018, Katowice 
 
 2 Mr. President, 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen 
At the outset, I would like to extend my sincere congratulations and 
appreciation to the Government of Poland for the excellent hosting of this 
important climate conference in this beautiful country. 
Mr. President, 
Today we are experiencing the increased frequency and intensity of natural 
disaster s that brought heavy loss and damage to lives and properties of many 
people in different parts of the world. My country is no exception. This year, w e 
have been severely affected by extensive flooding across the country in a scale 
that has never happened before in the h istory of our country. About 30% of the 
total villages in 115 out of 148 districts have been affected by massive floods 
that need s around US$ 500 million for the work of recovery and reconstruction. 
Mr. President, 
Lao PDR has attached great importance to address the issue of climate change. 
We have set a very ambitious goal of reversing deforestation to achieve 70% of 
forest coverage by 2020. We are among the group of countries who earlier 
signed the Paris Agreement. In addition, early this month , Lao PDR has ratified 
the Doha Amendment . 
To put our commitment into action, the Government is taking the initiative on 
mitigation and adaptation seriously. Climate change and disasters l aw is being 
finalize d as a legal framework to enhance the resilience of our infrastructures, 
cities and livelihoods. National adaptation planning processes are also under 
development and the green growth policy has been adopt ed and being 
developed into national strategy and action plan . 3 With regar d to the implementation of the NDC, we have achieved significant 
progress in many aspects. We have been working closely with development 
partners to mobilize resources to invest in adaptation efforts. 
Mr. President 
It is widely acknowledged that technology transfer, access to climate funding 
and capacity building for developing countries, particularly, least developed 
countries are the key factors should we to achieve our noble target of reducing 
greenhouse gasses emission. Furthermore, the ownership and th e engagement of 
all sectors within the society are also critical. Private sector, in particular , which 
is a significant engine for driving economic growth must be involved actively. 
Nonetheless, political will and commitment from all the countries in the world, 
whether a big or small, developed or developing must be at the fore front, to 
drive the wheel for achiev ing our world for a green and sustainable 
development. 
For its part, Lao PDR reiterates our commitment to a common sustainable 
future. 
I thank you. 