1 
 16 November 2016, Marrakech Climate Change Conference 
 
Statement by Kaspars Gerhards, Minister of Environmental Protection 
and Regional Development of the Republic of Latvia 
 
 Mr. President, dear Excellences, ladies and gentlemen! 
 I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the Republic 
of Latvia. 
 
 This year has been tremendously successful – the Paris Agreement has 
entered into force less than a year after its adoption and we already 
can witness its positive influence. 
 In Latvia too currently there is an unprecedented interest in climate 
change issues . People are becoming more aware of the urgency of the 
issue and action needed. 
 
 Only decisive actions can lead us to fulfil ment of the promises we 
included in the Paris Agreement.  
 We must act now . 
 
 This year almost e very month has been the hottest month ever since 
contemporary records began in 1880 . Climate change is happening . 
 For settlements it is e specially serious challenge . 
 Urban territories are home to more than half of world’s population 
and much of the world’s industry. 
 Everyone is being influenced.  
 2 
  Therefore I hope that the progress achieved here in M arrakech in 
preparing the detailed rules for the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement shall be sustainable . 
 
 We need to make sure that the rules foster the implementation of the 
Agreement in the most ambitious way possible. 
 
 Moreover, a l ot of work has to be done domestic ally. 
 We need to design national policies for the implementation of our 
nationally determined contributions . 
 We have to develop long term strategies for low carbon pathways. 
 
 In Latvia we are working on the low carbon development strategy for 
2050 . It is necessary to guide our society in changing consumption and 
production patterns. 
 This is essential to ensure transition towards low carbon and climate 
resilient future . 
 
 I’m sure that here is Marrakech we can demonstrate to the world that 
we are delivering on ambition that was put in t he Paris Agreement. 
 
 Thank you!  