
I have the honour to congratulate Her Excellency Ms. Carolina Schmidt, 
Minister of Environment of the Republic of Chile, on her election as the 
President of COP 25, the CMP15, and 2nd CMA . I am confident that as 
we are celebrating 25 years of multilateral action under the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change process she will 
lead the COP process in an open, transparent and inclusive manner, 
including facilitating efforts to advance the work programme of the Paris 
Agreement in a balanced, fair and rule -based manner. We note with 
concern that collectively our actions are not adequate to address the 
challenge of climate change and its impacts. I therefore call upon 
coherence in addressing all elements under the Paris Agreement. To this 
end, I confirm my Country’s full cooperation and commitment in 
reaching agreed outcomes that will lead to full implementation of Paris 
Agreement under her leadership. 
Madam President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen 
We would like to note with concern the findings of the international 
scientific community, including the recent three reports of the 
Inter governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC); Report on a 1.5oC 
temperature increase, Climate Change Land Report as well as the 
Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Cl imate, 
 which highlight the damaging impacts of climate change on agriculture 
and important biospheres critical to our livelihoods and food security, 
thus confirming the urgent need for rapid reductions in global emissions 
to avoid increased loss and damage and scaled up support t o vulnerable 
countries like Lesotho so that we can adapt and build resilience. 
Lesotho has in recent years experienced climate -related negative impacts 
which included prolonged droughts, receding dam levels, drying rivers 
and wetla nds, just to name a few. These adverse impacts have led to 
large economic losses, adversely impacting on food security. 
We take cognizance of the Special Report on 1.5oC which indicates that 
limiting warming to 1.5oC remains feasible and will have conside rable 
sustainable development benefits for L east Developed Countries and 
other developing countries compared to warming of 2oC. H owever, the 
current average global temperature levels are already causing significant 
negative impacts in our countries. We the refore call upon CO P25 to 
keep momentum building towards more ambitious climate action and 
achievements of the Paris Agreement. 
 
We would like to welcome the initiatives of the United Nations 
Secretary -General on climate change and convening global Leader s 
calling them to enhance ambition and accelerate actions in order to come 
up with concrete and realistic plans to enhance their Nationally  
 Determined Contributions (NDCs) by 2020, in line with reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 , and to net 
zero emissions by 2050 in an effort of getting onto a 1.5°C pathway. It 
is our sincere believe that this call has generated much needed political 
momentum and awareness although much more is required to ensure 
that the legacy of the Summit tr anslates into more ambitious NDCs, 
stronger policies and climate action over the next decade. 
 
Lesotho has recently developed climate change policy aimed at enabling 
it to manage, promote and implement climate change interventions. Our 
5-year national clim ate change strategy outlines the need for Lesotho to 
radically transform its economy in a climate resilient and sustainable 
manner. There are initiatives to develop climate change bill which will 
further provide guidance on the implementation of climate ch ange 
initiatives in the country. We therefore call upon the interested Parties to 
support us in the implementation of this policy.  
 
We welcome the issue of the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris 
Agreement. More funding will thus be available to tackle ada ptation in 
the developing countries. We therefore urge the developed country 
Parties to offer more financial resources and provide a clear pathway to 
the projected US$100 billion finance that they agreed to provide by 
2020. We also encourage simplified pro cedures for direct access to 5 
 funding, to enable countries with little capacities such as Lesotho, to 
easily access these funds. However, there is need for further elaboration 
of adaptation planning and implementation under the Paris Agreement to 
address ex treme meteorological events, and we call upon Parties to the 
UNFCCC to continue the elaboration of Article 7 of the Paris 
Agreement, including the goal of adaptation, adaptation needs and 
associated costs. We note with great concern the difficulty that our 
countries face in accessing finance to formulate and implement National 
Adaptation Plans. We hope the modalities in accessing funds under the 
GCF for adaptation can be simplified for the most vulnerable countries 
taking into consideration the technical challenges they face. 
 
We acknowledge the progress made in respect to adaptation. We 
therefore would like to see a scaled up adaptation finance. We urge the 
developed countries to provide full support to the developing countries 
for the formulation, updatin g and implementation of Adaptation 
Communications, as a component of NDCs, which will take into account 
information on the developing countries’ needs and associated costs, 
including support needed to implement adaptation action.  
 
We therefore urge all de veloped countries and international partners to 
provide finance, technology transfer and capacity -building support to 
our countries in implementing our NDCs, low GHG emissions  
 development strategies, gender action plans, and national climate change 
policie s, measures and strategies. 
We call upon adoption of clear rules at this meeting to ensure that NDCs 
follow one common time frame, which is essential to avoid locking in 
low ambition and enhance the comparability of NDC targets and the 
predictability of the NDC cycle. We call upon the operationalization the 
transparency framework under the Paris Agreement (Article 13) in a 
manner that leads to a balanced outcome between the transparency of 
action and support including capacity building so that developing 
countries can meet the requirements of reporting under the Paris 
Agreement. 
 
We further call for the full operationalization of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with climate 
change impacts including provisions of Article 8 a nd the support to 
enable our countries to deal with losses and damages associated with 
climate change impacts. Therefore we call upon Review of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage (WIM) at this meeting 
for delivering a strengthened, effi cient, action -oriented Mechanism that 
will better address loss and damage in line with the priorities and needs 
identified by developing countries 
 
Finally, Madam President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
 Paris was a landmark in our common pursuit of a safe and sustainable 
world. We do understand that a lot still has to be done in the coming 
years and decades, in order to implement and accomplish the full 
potential of the Paris Agreement. It is our collective responsibility to put 
the world on a path t owards a climate -resilient sustainable future, 
without compromising the survival of nations. 
 
I thank you. 