 
Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Government; 
 
Distinguished Delegates an d Participants; 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen: 
 
 
I would like to thank the Government and People of the United 
Arab Emirates for hosting the United Nations Climate Change 
Conference (COP 28) here in Dubai. 
 
I am also grateful for the warm welcome extended to my 
delegation since our arrival in the beautiful city of Dubai. 
 
As we convene here at COP28, I stand before you in recognition 
of the unprecedented challenges our world faces today due to 
climate change. In the wake of COP26 and COP27, the year 2023 
has been characterized by record -breaking heat, droughts, 
flooding, and other disasters caused by climate change, which 
have occurred with increasing frequency throughout the year. 
 
  
Our shared commitment to the 2015 Paris Agreement demands a 
candid assessment of our progre ss. The extraordinary climate 
shocks experienced this year are not only a wake -up call, but a 
call to action, urging us to re -evaluate the progress we have made 
so far towards achieving our aspirational goal of limiting global 
temperature rise to 1.5 degre es Centigrade by 2030. 
 
If, after such review, we conclude that we have not done enough 
to meet these climate goals, then it is the responsibility of all 
countries present here at COP28 to adopt an imperative and 
more realistic agenda to implement and tran sform key 
climate -related decisions into concrete actions and credible plans; 
and increase the level of financial and other commitments on 
climate change issues, with an aim to fight back climate 
emergency and promote more coordinated action to combat 
climate change. 
 
In my address two years ago at COP26 in Glasgow, I called 
attention to the inherent imbalance in the current architecture of 
climate change financing, and suggested that there needs to be a 
fundamental shift in the way that we tackle this mism atch in 
climate investments. 
 

 
Today, let me reiterate that major greenhouse gas emitting 
countries will need to develop new initiatives for emission 
reduction, and not only fulfill – but significantly increase – the 
financial pledges that they have pr eviously made for funding 
United Nations climate financing initiatives. 
 
At the same time, care should be taken to overhaul and regulate 
carbon credit financing mechanisms to ensure more transparency 
and accountability, so that they are not used merely as an avenue 
for high emitters to avoid responsibility for reducing emissions. 
 
Vulnerable nations such as Liberia will require more financial 
support to protect us from the ravages of global warming and 
climate change. Funding for adaptation and mitigation is crucial, 
and compensation for the loss and damage already inflicted must 
be an urgent consideration. 

YOUR EXCELLENCIES, DISTINGUISHED DELEGATES, 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, 
 
In our shared stewardship of this global village, let our 
deliberations at COP28 culminate in resolute decisions and 
practical initiatives. I challenge each of you to contribute to the 
preservation of Planet Earth, our only home, for the sake of 
generations yet unborn. 
 
 
I thank you. 