National Statement
Principality of Liechtenstein

Councillor Marlies Amann-Marxer
COP 22
16. November 2016

Marrakesh

- check against delivery -


Mr. President,
Excellencies,
Distinguished Delegates

Ladies and Gentlemen

First of all, | would like to take the opportunity to thank the
people and the Government of Morocco for their warm and

welcoming hospitality in this very beautiful and pulsating city.

After years of long and, unfortunately, somewhat hesitant
negotiations we now have experienced 12 months of bustling
activity, these last 12 months can only be characterized as

unprecedented.


In December 2015 over 190 countries with different cultures,
languages, histories and religions reached a_ universal
agreement. The agreement aims to keep the global average
temperature rise well below 2 degrees Celsius this century.
Moreover, we will drive efforts to limit the temperature
increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

That, ladies and gentlemen, is unprecedented.

On April the 22"° this year over 170 countries came to New
York in order to sign the Paris Agreement. This was by far the
largest number of countries ever to sign an international

agreement on a single day. That is unprecedented.

On October the 4" this year no less than 55 countries
emitting more than 55 per cent of global greenhouse gases
handed in the instrument of ratification. Thereby the
threshold that put the Paris Agreement into force was

surpassed. It took 7 years to put the Kyoto Protocol into


The Paris Agreement will unleash action and send signals to
the markets, but it will take a sustained effort to set the

world on a safer and greener path.

Mr. President,

Rest assured that Liechtenstein is ready to make this effort in
order to take that safer and greener path. And we want to
take this path together with our friends and partners within
the framework of the Paris Agreement.

| have instructed my staff to prepare the ratification of the
Paris Agreement by our Parliament as soon as possible. We
expect to become a full member to the Agreement by mid-

2017.


Liechtenstein is already governed by high environmental
standards, which renders further domestic emission
reductions difficult to achieve. Nontheless, we will not stop to
further improve energy efficiency, promote renewable
energy production and set incentives for the establishment of
a low carbon economy in Liechtenstein. We have done so in

the past and we will do so in the future.

Being aware of our responsibility and taking into account our
capabilities, Liechtenstein aims to achieve a 40 % reduction of
total Greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, based on 1990

levels.

We will prove that economic growth can be decoupled from
greenhouse gas emissions; we will prove — that — one day —

emissions in transportation may be history and that our


| am confident that we will achieve the goals that we set
ourselves 11 months ago. In 100 years our grandchildren may
well look back and tell their children — the speed of the
transition from a global economy into a low carbon world —

that is unprecedented!

Shukran - thank you!


