 1/2 
GOVERNMENT 
PRINCIPALITY OF LIECHTENSTEIN  
 
National Statement  
Principality of Liechtenstein 
 
Minister Dominique Hasler 
 
COP 25 
 
10.11.1 2. December 2019 
 
Madrid/Spain 
 
Mr. President,  
Excellencies,  
Distinguished Delegates 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Government of Chile and the 
Kingdom of Spain for their flexibility and their utmost effort to welcome all of us here in 
Madrid . To be completely honest, I did not think it possible to organize an event like this 
on such short notice, but you made the impossible possible Thank you and your team for 
making COP twenty five happen. Now it is on us to make it a success ! 
 
This year two alarming IPCC special repor ts were published and spoke a language clearer 
than ever. The special report on Climate change and Land as well as the special report on 
the oceans and the cryosphere came up with truly galvanizing conclusions. Again, science 
shows us the urgency to act immediately! The clock in the COP twenty five logo shows 
fifteen seconds before twelve and the clock is ticking . Science shows us what needs to be 
done but it is on us to take the steps necessary. 
 2/2 
 In Liechtenstein we believe that empowering our youth is the way to go. Therefore , we 
initiated a three year project for school children and another one for teenagers during 
their apprenticeship. Both project s started last month and are led by a private foundation. 
The education project "Energy and Clim ate Pioneers" encourages schoolchildren to 
discover their possibilities to act and become active for climate protection and saving 
energy by undertaking project work in their classes.  Another project is the myclimate 
Energy and Climate Workshop , a nationa l project competition for students and trainees. 
Foresight and innovation regarding climate protection and energy efficiency are in high 
demand . 
 
In September this year on the occasion of the UN General Assembly , Liechtenstein joined 
the Risk-informed Early Action Partnership (REAP). The goal of this initiative is to make 
one billion people safer from disasters by creating a new partnership to greatly expand 
early action financing and improve early warning systems and the capacity to act on the 
risks they identify. This will save lives, protect livelihoods and improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of response. In addition, we communicated the contribution of Liechtenstein 
to the replenishment of the Green Climate Fund a few months ago. 
 
Next year the Liechtenstein government plans to release its long term climate strat egy. 
Dear Sirs and Madams I assure you that we will not only continue but intensify our 
commitment to tackle climate change . Liechtenstein is committed to contribute its fair 
share to the international endeavours. Our Energy strategy 2030 is in preparation along 
with our Energy vision for 2050 , which both will be presente d to the public , early next year 
as well. With these national commitments we are on the road to reach Paris. It is indeed a 
time for action . There is not much time left! 
 
Thank you! 