Let me start by expressing my gratitude to the Government of the United King-
dom for their huge efforts to welcome all of us in Glasgow and to assure the 
continuity of international climate diplomacy at times of a global pandemic. 
The fact that so many of us are present at the highest possible political level is a 
proof of the importance and urgency of the topic. I truly hope that today and in 
the coming two weeks, we will not only speak about climate change. We must 
move forward, increase ambition and turn our collective and individual com-
mitments into true action. We need a concrete and positive outcome of the 
COP26 and Liechtenstein will support the Presidency as much as possible to 
succeed. 
 
Our meeting today is much more than just a conference about climate change. 
It is a conference about the future of our planet, the future of our States and 
the future of humankind. It is our moral duty to ensure a liveable planet and a 
healthy environment for future generations. A dialogue with the youth is es-
sential. We must also listen to science and the IPCC in particular. What does 
science tell us? Global warming is not simply a raise in temperatures that leads 
to more extreme weather conditions and deterio rates biodiversity . If we do not 
succeed to limit global warming below 1.5 °C, we will be unable to ensure food 
security, water and sanitation in many regions of the world. Inundation due to 
sea-level rise threatens the ability of Small Island States to express their peo-
 ples’ right to self-determination through Statehood . New conflicts about re-
sources and forced migration will emerge, if we do not succeed in our individ-
ual and collective efforts. In short, climate change is a global security threat 
that calls for collective multilateral action. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable De-
velopment must therefore guide all our decisions . 
 
The time for decisive global action is now and Liechtenstein urges all States to 
take up their global responsibility . Every state can and must contribute to 
tackle climate change and so does Liechtenstein. We recogni se the urgent need 
to protect biodiversity and improve adaptation measures and to take early ac-
tion to reduce vulnerability to the massive effects of climate change. Liechten-
stein therefore supports the Glasgow Leader’s declaration on Forests and Land 
Use. 
 
Some of us have argued that reducing greenhouse gas emissions while achiev-
ing economic and social well-being is incompatible. Liechtenstein can serve as 
an example to prove the opposite. Since 1990, our population has grown by 
one third and our GDP has more than quadrupled. Nevertheless , Liechtenstein 
will achieve the Kyoto -target 2020 and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 
levels well below those of 1990. Greenhouse gas emissions per capita are 
amongst the lowest in Europe , despite the fact that Liechtenstein is one of the 
most industrialised countries in the world. It is therefore possible to decouple 
economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. To make this happen, con-
sistent investment in innovative technologies to boost renewable energies and 
to increase energy efficiency is essential . For instance, Liechtenstein has been 
solar world champion since 2015 with the highest installed photovoltaic capac-
ity per capita. 
 
 However, we need to go beyond these achievements. We are committed to 
achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. In October 2020, the Liechtenstein Gov-
ernment has adopted the climate vision 2050, the energy strategy 2030 and 
the energy vision 2050. The goal of net-zero -emissions has also been intro-
duced into our national legislation . I am personally committed to promote the 
implementation of these goals. 
 
In the spirit of the 2030 Agenda – which embeds climate change in SDG 13 – we 
are fully aware that we should not limit our action to reduce emissions domes-
tically. Many of the goods we import and consume are produced abroad. Also, 
our financial sector invests globally and has an influence on emissions in other 
countries. Sustainable finance and production are therefore crucial. Many pri-
vate companies in Liechtenstein from the industrial and financial sector have 
published ambitious commitments with regard to sustainability . Such private 
commitments towards sustainable transformation of the global economy are 
crucial and I encourage more private actors to follow this path. 
 The Liechtenstein Government support s developing countries in their effort to 
improve mitigation actions and adaptation to climate chang e and dedicate 
around ten percent of our annual budget for International Humanitarian Coop-
eration and Development to climate finance . Supporting the Green Climate 
Fund is a key element of our financial engagement. Per capita, we contribute 
with USD 70 to climate finance annually. And the Government is committed to 
further increase climate finance from next year, with a focus on the humanitar-
ian sector. I personally welcome the Climate and Energ y charter of the ICRC. 
Liechtenstein will support the efforts of the humanitarian sector to become 
more climate and environment friendly.  
 
 In the course of our more than three hundred years of sovereignty, Liechten-
stein has developed from an agrarian into a highly industrialised economy. Only 
farsighted thinking and clear dedication to multilateral cooperation allowed us 
to overcome and continuously prosper amidst many challenges. In that sense, I 
urge all States, according to our common but differentiated responsibility, to 
collectively and individually increase our ambitions and follow through with im-
plementation. 
 
Thank you! 