Mr. President, Excellences, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Let me start with the greetings for entering into force the historical Paris 
Agreement and wish all of us success to implement ours commitments . 
Lithuania finalizes ratification process of the Paris Agreeme nt and put s efforts 
for it’s implementation. 
Today , with appreciation for the hospitality of Moroccans , I would like to 
express my full support to COP 22 President and his team in their initiatives 
and readiness to approve implementing decisions of the Paris Agreement . 
In order to achieve goals of the Paris Agreement , the most important priority 
for all countries is successful implementation of ambitious and legally binding 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitments. 
We strongly believe, that only acting together we can prevent climate change. 
Therefore, active participation of all countries, especially the biggest 
economies, is of the utmost importance. 
Lithuania , together with other members of the European Union , has taken a 
commitment to reduce GHG emis sions at least 40 percent until 2030 . We are 
going to fulfill it by implement ing the EU climate and energy policy . 
Lithuanian experience proves that there is no contradiction between economic 
growth and environment protection . Lithuania has three million inhabitants 
and is responsible for insignificant part ( less than 0.04 percent ) of global 
annual greenhouse gas emissions. Nevertheless, our emission levels in the last 
25 years fell by 58 percent, while our GDP increased by 30 per cent during 
this period demonstrating that economy growth is decoupled from increase of 
emissions.  
Lithuania’s climate change policy is enshrined in the National Lo w Carbon 
Development and Adaptation Strategy and its Implementation Action Plan. 
Climate targe ts and objectives are accordingly mainstreamed into sectorial 
development programs. Lithuania’s g radual emission reductions targets are 
being implemented in different economy sectors, such as energy, industry, 
transport, agriculture setting long term pathways for climate change 
mitigation and adaptation.  
We are implementing ambitious modernization programs for multi -apartment 
and public build ings by improving energy efficiency . Renewable energy is 
used more widely . In 2014 Lithuania used 23.6 percent of renewables in final 
energy consumption 
Lithuania on voluntary basis is increasing climate finance to developing 
countries and strives, that provided support is result -oriented. 
We believe that Marrakech conference will make a substantial progress in all 
actions of the Paris wor k program and provid e a solid basis to move to a low 
emission s climate resilient global economy . 
In order to guarantee that Paris Agreement commitments are fully respected 
robust accou ntability and transparency guidelines under Paris Agreement 
shall be dev eloped . We need to prepare for the 2018 facilit ative dialogue and 
global stocktake process to review our collective efforts towards long -term 
mitigation, adaptation and the means of implementation goals . 
Mr Chair, dear colleagues , the only way to guarantee our safe future is 
efficient glo bal actions implementing Paris A greement . 
Thank you for your attention ! 