  
 
  
 Address of the President of the Republic of Lithuania, Gitanas Nausėda, 
at the UN Climate Change Conference 
Mister President, 
Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Lithuania is committed to be a part of the global solution. 
As nature is declining at an unprecedented rate, it is time for us to come 
together as humankind . Big and small, North and South, rich and poor – we 
must all change our ways and stop the climate crisis that leads to biodiversity 
loss and threats to public health. 
Lithuania knows that crises come with opportunities . We know the power of 
change. Ten years ago, we transformed our heating sector by switching from 
natural gas to sustainable indigenous biomass . We kept more money in 
people’s pockets and we also reduced pollution emissions , while staying 
competitive . 
Today Lithuania strongly supports international and EU climate change 
goals . We have already reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 58 percent . Our 
plan, endorsed by the parliament, is to go further : to decrease greenhouse gas 
emissions by 70 percent by 2030 compared to 1990 level s and to cover at 
least 50 percent of our electricity needs from renewables. The whole 
Lithuanian economy will be climate neutral by 2050. 
As fossil fuel price s are reach ing new highs, I see new opportunities . The 
Paris Agreement together with the digitization drive form a clear roadmap . 
To achieve ambitious goals, new partnerships must be forged both locally 
and internationally.  
That is why I called on Lithuanian municipalities, businesses, industries , 
NGO’s , and every Lithuanian to join the Green Lithuania Declaration . My 
country also encourages closer regional cooperation and joint Baltic States’ 
actions to tackle climate change and the deterioration o f the Baltic Sea, and 
to better preserve our nature .  
 
  
 As a global community , we should rethink the ways we produce and 
consume . For the i ndustr y production to leave no CO2 footprint, it needs to 
move closer to consumer markets . We should also pay more attention to 
compliance with the highest environmental and nuclear standards . Our 
technological shift should be sustainable and environmentally friendly . 
Fellow Leaders, we all hold keys to a better future. Let us use them for global 
welfare ! 