 
 
Lithuanian National Statement to the COP25 
By Mr . Marius Narmontas, Vice -minister of Environment 
Madrid, 11 December 2019 
 
It is a great pleasure for me to address you at this COP2 5 in the beautiful city of 
Madrid. Lithuania fully aligns itself with the statement by the EU and its Member 
States . 
 
It is of the utmost importance to identify and to admit globally that today’s human 
society is facing climate crisis and we must challenge it. The IPCC Special Report’s 
conclusion , that the commitments of the par ties are not sufficient to achieve the long -
term goals of the Paris Agreement, is a strong signal for stepping up additional global 
efforts. 
 
In order to achieve goals of the Paris Agreement, all countries have to shift towards 
climate -neutral economy as s oon as possible. We believe that transition offers new 
opportunit ies for innovat ions, competitiveness and jobs. Lithuania’s experience proves 
that econom y growth can be decoupled from the increase of emissions. In the last 25 
years our greenhouse gas emiss ions have fallen by almost 60 percent, while our G DP 
has increased by 42 percent. 
 
Lithuania has successfully implemented Kyoto Protocol, particularly in the first 
commitment period (2008 –2012) with reducing more than 55 percent of our GHG 
emissions over t his period and we are on track to reach our targets for the Kyoto 
second commitment period (2013 –2020) together with E U and its Member States . 
 
When it comes to Paris Agreement , Lithuania jointly with the EU and its Member 
States made a binding commitment to meet the target of at least 40 percent domestic 
reduction in economy -wide GHG emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. By the en d of 
this year Lithuania will finalize the National Long term Low Carbon Development 
and Adaptation Strategy with a view to reach net-zero emissions by 2050.  
Concrete measures of all economy sector s for the coming decade are set in the 
integrated Nacional energy and climate plan. Our climate change mitigation policy is 
based on the sustainable use of renewables and increased energy efficiency. Along 
with developing wind and solar energy, we are also determined to switch from fossil 
fuels to biomass in the central heating sector. 
 
We are improving energy efficiency in buildings by implementing ambitious 
modernization programme for mul ti-apartment and public buildings. Multi -apartment 
Building Renovation Programme aims to reduce at least 20 percent of energy use with 
230 thousands of tons of CO 2 saving by 2020. 
 
In order to mitigate climate change we must speed up our policies on circul ar 
economy and bio -economy . Lithuania has decreased the total GHG emissions in waste 
sector by 30 percent since 2005. Due to deposit refund system of single -use packaging 
introduced from 2016 we collect almost 92 percent of packaging p laced on the market. 
It is one of the most effective and advanced deposit refund systems in the world. 
 
Aiming to shift investments towards a low carbon economy we promote cooperation 
between public, private sector and financial institutions. This cooperation has proved 
as a v alid alternative source of finance for investments in low carbon solutions. An 
example of greening finance for sustainable business is a project implemented by 
Lietuvos Energija. Lithuania's national energy company, which is one of the largest 
state-owned energy groups in the Baltics, in cooperation with the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development, has successfully issued 300 million euros green 
bonds and attracted nearly 1.4 billion euros for investments in renewable energy, 
energy efficiency, cle an transportation and pollution prevention and control . 
 
Lithuania also contributes to climate finance for developing countries. We are 
determined to mobilize at least 1 million euros for climate financing from public and 
private sources annually, and in 2 019 we reached around 2 million euros. We are 
using public finances to mobilize private sector investments into low carbon solutions, 
under bilateral cooperation projects transferring technologies to developing countries.  
Inter -relation of climate change goals, environment protection and energy security are 
equally important for sustainable development of energy. Coping with these aspects of 
cross border nature in all the projects are essential conditions to achieve sustainable 
development goals. Due to tr ansboundary impact nuclear energy could be climate 
friendly and safe only if developed in full compliance with environmental and nuclear 
safety requirements. Regretfully it is not the case of Ostrovets Nuclear Power Plant 
project. 
 
I believe that acting to gether Parties and Non -State Actors can effectively tackle the 
climate challenge. 
 
Thank you for your attention. 