 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Address by the 
President of the Republic of Macedonia, 
His Excellency Dr. Gjorge Ivanov, 
at the Climate Summit – COP24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Katowice, December 3, 2018 
 
 
 1Esteemed excellences, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
As President of the Republic of Macedonia, I have the honor to address you first at 
what is my last attendance at the Conference of the parties. 
 
In the past 10 years I have witnessed both high expectations and soaring 
disappointments, great obstacles and even greater resolution by a handful of people, 
a global creative minority, that was determined to bring us, the policy and decision 
makers to Paris. To bring us just to find out that Paris was but a start of a long race 
that will determine the fate of humanity. With their contagious passion, they helped us 
see beyond the banal priorities of next elections into the essential needs of this and 
next generations. 
 
We are no longer running a race to win, but to survive as human species. In our race 
with global warming, we have to train and learn as we run, because we are running 
out of time. We have to make profound changes in our lifestyle, production, 
consumption and development. We need to replace selfish consumerism with a 
sharing philosophy. Without eternal morality, we will have ephemeral humanity. Only 
by changing the habits of our hearts will we start changing the heart of the 
unsustainable global energy system. 
 
The Republic of Macedonia is continuously aligning its manner of reporting with the 
European Union standards. We are changing the way in which strategies, policies and 
laws are being drafted and revised with transparent and wide participation of all 
stakeholders. But even that is not enough. As I speak here, many of my fellow citizens 
are breathing in some of the most polluted air in Europe. The path is narrow, and we 
need to stand shoulder to shoulder. We need to forge a circle of trust among 
politicians, scientists, entrepreneurs, educators, activists, because we are not racing 
against each other, but together as a team. Energy, agriculture, transport and 
construction sectors have to take climate change into consideration. It is necessary 
for the health of the people, especially the most vulnerable categories. So, our 
permanent commitment must be green growth and development and lower carbon 
emissions. But that is possible only if we create green jobs. Therefore, we support the 
Solidarity and Just Transition of the Silesia Declaration that deals with prequalification 
of workforce. 
 
We expect COP24 to place the general rules for monitoring the progress of countries’ 
implementation of the Paris Agreement. The guidelines must be clear, comprehensive 
but also flexible enough for every country to make assessments and to report on its 
advancement towards the global goal. The Republic of Macedonia belongs to one of 
the most vulnerable regions in the world in terms of climate change. Therefore, along 
the climate change mitigation rules, the decisions should include climate change 
adaptation of the most affected sectors. There must be a parity between mitigation 
and adaptation. This is especially important in the context of finance. 
 
The Republic of Macedonia remains dedicated to these efforts. We need to run this 
race not to win, but to survive, not for ourselves, but for future generations. 
 
Thank you. 