
Dear high level representatives of the 23rd Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC, 
Distinguished colleague, I am pleased to announce that 10 days ago the Republic of Macedonia 
ratified the Paris Agreement.  
As a new reform government , within 3 months, we have use the spirit of this cop23 “Further, 
Faster, Together” as a tool to provide everything that is necessary to ratify the Paris Agreement, 
with no votes against. 
Macedonia reinforces the com mitment of joining the global efforts to address the climate 
change and to ensure low carbon growth and development. Even more, in the Second Biennial 
Update Report (which will be officially submitted to UNFCCC by the end of the year), we have 
analyzed possible increase of our climate action, whether we want to continue along the 
Safeway or be more ambitious Climate Runner? 
Although the Republic of Macedonia is a non -Annex I country to the UNFCCC, it is as well a 
candidate country for European Union (EU) me mbership, and thus must adhere to the EU 
Climate and Energy Policy, which actually covers the commitments of Annex I countries. Having 
this in mind, the Republic of Macedonia has made voluntary efforts to incorporate UNFCCC 
reporting principles that apply to Annex I parties to the greatest extent possible. 
We are committed to #ClimateAction! But we must find a mechanism for additional financial 
support in order to implement the activities planned in our climate change strategic 
documents. As a small country situated in the Balkan region, with middle income, we lack 
access to more resources . The middle income countries , besides from the state budget, loans 
from IFI, are still in need of grants in order to address the most urgent mitigation and 
adaptation need s. This should be taken into consideration particularly by the Green Climate 
Fund. 
Without implementation, the Ratification will stay just an ordinary vote. The challenge that is 
ahead of us require to organize ourselves in order to provide more focused r esponse in line 
with our obligations, and take crucial further steps towards transformative change. 
The Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning and the Government of the Republic of 
Macedonia are strongly dedicated to move our country from Safeway t o Climate runner , and 
we know how to get there. 
Skopje, the capital city of Macedonia, is one of the most polluted cities in the world. There is a 
strong link between the air pollution and the climate change. Within the Second Biennial 
Update, we have mad e one step forward towards becoming climate champions, by analyzing 
three win -win measures related to heating in the capital of Macedonia – Skopje and their 
impact on reduction of both GHG emissions and local air pollution in Skopje . 
Climate change gives a n opportunity for the country to grow and develop. We are ready to use 
that opportunity, faster and together, for further generation. 