1 
 STATEMENT BY 
HE DATUK SERI DR WAN JUNAIDI TUANKU JAAFAR 
HONOURABLE MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 
ENVIRONMENT, MALAYSIA 
FOR 
JOINT HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF COP23  
16 NOVEMBER 2017 
Mr. President, Excellenc es, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
At the outset, allow me to congratula te the government of Fiji on t heir 
transparent and inclusive p residency of COP23 as well as thank the City and 
People of Bonn for their gracious hospitality and a llow me to also take a 
moment to remember all those wh o were impacted by several calamities and 
the tragic human and economic losses incurred . 
 
Malaysia’s Economic Transformation Program (ETP ), initiated by the 
Honorable Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Tun Razak, paved for our 
economic growth . Even though we are economically progressive, the 
conservation and protection of our environment has always been a very 
important agenda for Malaysia. Under the nation’s 10thand 11th 5 year 
Development Plan, the country’s development is very much focussed on 
green growth . 
 
On top of that we believe that one of the main push factors is the effective 
enforcement of the relevant environmental laws. We have reviewed and 2 
 amended old laws and drafted new laws , related to , among others , water 
resource conservation; pollutio n prevention and environmental degradation; 
forest protection and good governance; and marine conservation. 
 
On this note Malaysia was highly charged in communicating an ambiti ous 
NDC that seeks to reduce emissions intensity of GDP by 4 5% by 2030 
relative to the emission intensity of GDP in 2005 . This consists of 35% on an 
unconditional basis with a further 10% condition al upon receipt of climate 
finance, technology transfer and capacity b uilding comprising among others 
technologies including renewable energy generation such as geothermal and 
wind energy; energy efficiency measures; resource and waste management , 
which includ e waste to energy and biotechnology solutions; and capacity 
enhancement in Energy Systems Management. 
 
Additional programs are implemented and among others are the recently 
launched Green Technology Master Plan 2017 -2030 to create a low -carbon 
and resource efficient economy and the Nationa l Energy Efficiency Action 
Plan where the estimated emissions reduction for the year 2030 is 13.113 
Million Tonnes Carbon Dioxide equivalent (13.113 MtCO 2eq). 
 
In the transportation sector, Malaysia recently launched the Mass Rapid 
Transit (MRT) Phase One removing 9.9 million cars in 2017 and 62 - 89 
million between 2020 and 2030. Construction has also begun on the 2nd and 
3rdphase , which stretches for 52.2km . Other initiatives are the High Speed 
Rail Link between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore and the East Coast Rail Link 
(ECRL ), which stretches almost 700 kilometres . 
 3 
 At the cit ies level, GHG emissions reduction s are being scaled up under the 
Low Carbon Cities Framework (LCCF) . Apart from that we are also 
concentrating on reduc ing GHG emissions from the Oil P alm sector through 
our biomass and biogas initiatives.  
 
I am pleased to say that with the implementati on of these initiatives Malaysia 
is firmly on track to achieve its NDC by 2030. 
 
In the forestry sector , Malaysia welcomes the Green Climate Fund ’s (GCF ) 
historic approval of up to $500 million for REDD+ Results Based Payment s 
(RBP) . I am pleased to announce that Malaysia has updated the National 
REDD+ Strategy reducing emissions by 15 – 25 Million T onnes Carbon 
Dioxide equivalent (MtCO2eq) per year , and is now the third country in the 
world fulfilling the REDD+ requirements of the UNFCCC . This has 
showcased Malaysia’s serious commitment to Sustainable Forest 
Management (SFM) and the protection and conservation of the country’s rich 
biodiversity . We are proud to say that Malaysia is one of the 12 rich mega 
biodiverse countrie s in the world . We are also on track retaining at least 50% 
forest cover , pledged at COP 15, Copenhagen , 2009 by the Honorable Prime 
Minister of Malaysia and echoed in COP 21, Paris , 2015. 
 
Malaysia has t wo significant national forestry initiatives. The Central Forest 
Spine Initiative cover s 5.3 million h ectares in Peninsular Malaysia and The 
Heart of Borneo Initiative that is a trilateral cooperation between Brunei, 
Indonesia and Malaysia covers an area of over 20 million hectares . These 
initiatives help strengthen the world’s resilience to climate change by 
conserving carbon sinks and creating a huge green lung for the world while 4 
 at the same time protecting the livelihood s of the forest dependent 
communities.  2018 is our Visit Heart of Borneo Year and I take th is 
opportunity to warmly welcome all to experience our rich flora and fauna and 
enjoy the ecotourism programs. 
 
Malaysia too recognise s the importance of the Sustainable Development 
Goals and 2030 Agenda and has develop ed the National SDG Roadmap to 
integrate the 2030 Agenda into national policies and program s. 
 
At this COP, we remain fully committed to negotiating in good faith and in the 
constructive spirit of the Paris Agreement to wards finaliz ing the Modalities , 
Procedures and Guidelines needed to comprehensively and effectively 
implement the Paris Agreement and in so doing, enhance the full, effective 
and sustained implementation of the UN Convention on Climate Change . 
 
Thank you. 