Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,

Malaysia would like to congratulate the Kingdom of Morocco on their
highly effective Presidency of the 22nd COP to the UN Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and to thank them fo rthe excellent arrangements
and hospitality rendered to malyaisa and all delegates in this beautiful city of
Marrakech.

Malaysia also takes this opportunity to thank the french presidency on their
leadership and commitment that led to the adoption of the Paris Agreement
on 12 december 2015.

Recognising the urgency of the taks at hand and to underscore Malaysia's 
commitment in realising our collective climate target, we have completed 
domestic arrangements to ratify the Paris Agreement on the 4th November 
2016 and have sent our instrument of ratification to the UN headquarters 
in New York. 

Our mandate here in Morocco and in the meetings to come is to agree
and finalize the modalites, procedures and guidelines for the implementation
of the Paris Agreement in accordance with the finely balanced outcome that was
achieved there. As such, malaysia believes that being committed to the paris
agreement, and the convention that underpins it, requires that the modalities,
procedures and guidelines of the Paris Agreement emboy the principles of 
equity and common but differentiated responsiblities. 

It is no suprise,  therefore, that the Paris Agreement unequivocally affirms
the central tenets of the Convention, notably the continued responsibility of 
developed coutries to take the lead in reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions
and to provide the means of implementation to developing countries for the 
implementatio of mitigation and adaptation activities. Clear and ambitious leadership
by developed countreis, including in the pre-2020 period will build confidence
and set the stage for the much needed ramping up of actions. 

Malaysia remains committed in pursuing our climate objectives through the 
implementation of the sustainable development goals. One of our core strengths 
is in the area of forest and sustainable forest management. Our forest management records
date back to 1905 including the Matang Mangrove Forest Reserve. Today this site 
has been acknowledged as one of the best managed mangrove forests in the world.
We have continued to improve our forest management, implementing the Malaysian
Criteria and Indicators for Sustainable Forest Managemetn for Forest Certification 
in 2005. 

I would like to highlight that Malaysia's forest cover to date stands at 54.5 
per cent.  We continue to reaffirm our commitment to maintain at least 50% 
of our land areas as forest and tree cover. Malaysia is also commited to Reducing
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degratdation and promoting the role of 
conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks
in developing countires in short REDD+. We submitted the Forest Reference LEvel in 2014
and the Results-based actions early this year, and we subsequently presented our Summary
Information on REDD+ Safeguards to the UNFCCC secretariat on 14 november 2016. 
Malaysia has an ambitious REDD+ strategy to address the holistic forest management
requirement, and looks forward to accessing the international finance and support 
required for its successful implementation. 

Extreme weather events are already taking a toll on the sustainable development
gains achieved by malaysia. Malaysia experienced one of its worst floods in 2014 that
devastated entire sttlements in several states in malaysia. Losses were estimated at Malaysian
Ringgit 1 billion  or approximately 250 million US dollars and affected 2 million people. 

In this regard, malaysia remains conserned about the impact of climate change on 
agriculture and food security. Malaysia believes in maintaining a balance between
natural area conservation, food security and sustainable development. This balance can be achieved
through adequate adaptation. 

Malaysia welcomes the decision that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement, and 
urges developed country Parties, in line with their obligations under the Paris Agreement
to accelerate and scale up the provisions of financial, technological and capacity 
support for adaptation. 

Malaysia also urges developed country Parties to scale up financing through the Green
Climate Fund and to work constructively with developing countries to expedite the development of
simplified guidelines and processes for accessing these funds. 

In clonclusion, Malaysia would once again like to congratulate the Kingdom of Morocco and 
the UNFCCC secretariat on the excellent arrangements and for the inclusive and 
transparant organization of the meetings during this COP. Malaysia would like to assure you of 
our continued commitment ot work constructively towards finalizing the Modalities,
procedures and guidelines of the Paris Agreement under the convention to ensure
a bright an more sustainable future for all humanity. 
Thank you. 

