Malawi National Statement Presented at the High -level 
Segment of the 22nd Conference of the Parties 
 
 
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
STATEMENT BY 
DR YANIRA MSEKA NTUPANYAMA  
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY 
MINISTR Y OF NATURAL RESOURCES, 
ENERGY AND MINING 
(LEADER OF DELEGATION) 
AT 
THE 22ND SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE 
UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION 
ON CLIMATE CHANGE  
MARRAKESH, MOROCCO, 1 7TH NOVEMBER 2016 
 2  COP. 22/CMP.12/CMA1 President, Your Excellency Minister 
Salaheddine Mezouar , 
 The Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Ms. Patricia Espanosa , 
 Your Excellencies, Ministers and Heads of Delegations, 
 Distinguished Delegates, 
 Ladies and Gentlemen. 
 
 
On behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, I 
wish to congratulate Your Excellency Minister Salaheddine 
Mezouar , on your election as President of the 22nd Conference 
of Parties , the 12th Conference of Parties also serving as 
Meeting of Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the 1st 
Conference of the Meeting under the Paris Agreement . I wish 
you unlimited success and outstanding achievements. 
 
Mr. President , Malawi would like to concur and associate itself 
with the statements made by the Chairs of the Group of 77 
and China, Least Developed Countries, as well as the African 
Group. Our leaders of these groups have made it clear, as is 
Malawi , that the world is justifiably waiting for our decisions 
with a degree of impatience, on th e modalities, procedures 
and guidelines for the effective implementation of all 
elements in the Paris Agreement, whi ch we adopted in Paris 
in December 2015. We all applauded the momentous 
adoption of the historic Paris Agreement on that beautiful and 
historical evening. It is now time for action.  3 
In this regard, Malawi looks forward with great anticipation , to 
this Conference adopting decisions , in particular on financing 
for adaptation, mitigation, capacity building, technology 
transfer, loss and damage and implementation of Nati onally 
Determined Contributions.  
 
The horrific impacts of climate change are continuousl y and 
adversely affecting the poorest and most vulnerabl e. People 
are dying. People are displaced. Livelihoods are threatened 
and disrupted . Generation and provision of energy is 
disrupted. Agricultural production is hampered. There is 
resurgence of human and agricultural pests and diseases 
affecting our country and other parts of the world as well . 
Countries are losing their long and hard -earned infrastructure. 
Economies are being pushed back due to these impacts of 
climate change . 
 
Malawi , which has been ranked the 3rd most vulnerable 
country to climate risk , is a country bearing the brunt of the 
adverse impact of climate change and yet we have not 
contributed to the cause of the challenge . This year, we 
experienced severe drought to the extent that t he State 
President of the Republic of Malawi, His Excellency Professor 
Arthur Peter Mutharika, declared a state of d isaster over the 
country on 12th April, 2016 . In 2015, we experienced 
unprecedented devastating floods in living memory. These 4 floods affect ed 1.1 million people, displaced 230,000 people, 
killed 106 people . The floods also caused widespread 
damage to crops, livestock, homes, as well as roads and 
bridges. These effects are negatively affecting Malawi’s 
economic growth. The direct cost of droug hts and floods is 
about 1.7% of Malawi’s GDP every year. In 2015, the GDP 
growth was revised downwards from a projected 5.1% to 3.1% 
on account of floods. 
 
In this regard, Malawi needs support in form of finance for 
adaptation, transfer of appropriate tec hnology, and 
capacity building so that we are able to implement 
interventions that would enhance the resilience of our 
productive sectors and ecosystems that are negatively 
affected by these extreme climate events . We also need 
financial support to deal with losses and damages that occur 
as a result of these negative climate change impacts. This 
support is very key to Malawi to safeguard the economic 
gains that have been achieved this far. 
 
Mr President, the COP -22, here in Marrakesh , therefore 
requires us to adopt decisions that will rescue Malawi’s 
vulnerable populations and to enhance ecosystem services 
for them to be able to sustain their livelihoods, now and in 
future, through the post -2020 period. We are concern ed that 
the discussions on agriculture agenda item did not conclude. 
As you may know, agriculture is the main stay of Malawi  5 econom y and suffers worst effects of climate change in our 
country . We hope to build on discussions that have taken 
place here on issues related to agriculture and look forward 
to an agreed decision on this item next year. 
 
Mr. President , Malawi welcomes the decision to continue the 
Lima work program on gender. We believe that efforts to 
advance gender balance and gender responsive climate 
policies need to be accelerated considering that evidence 
has shown that climate change has differential impacts on 
men and women. We look forward to implementing gender 
responsive clima te policies and actions to ensure both men 
and women participate effectively in the fight against climate 
change.  
 
Mr. President , Malawi sees a great opportunity for political and 
moral leadership, and an increasingly urgent need for action 
in the face of these escalating threats to humankind. 
Developed country Parties must take the lead and show their 
commitment to enhancing implementation of the 
Convention that we all signed two decades ago. 
 
Mr President, Your Excellencies, Honourable Ministers, Ladie s 
and Gentlemen, I thank you all for listening.  
 