
First and foremost, Malaysia would like to congratulate the Arab Republic 
of Egypt, for the hosting of COP -27 and for great hospitality shown to our 
delegates in this beautiful city of Sharm El -Sheikh. 
 

1. Malaysia’s share of global CO2 emissions is estimated at 0. 69%. 
Despite the small contribution, Malaysia remains steadfast in 
implementing climate actions to further reduce our emissions . We 
had updated our NDC in 202 1, announced our aspiration to achieve 
net-zero GHG emissions as early as 2050 and reiterated our 
commitment to maintain at least 50% of our forest cover as pledged 
at Rio Earth Summit in 1992. 

2. To support these target s and aspiration, we have incorporated 
climate initiatives in our national development plans and further 
accelerate our climate actions. The focus of our mitigation actions is 
on energy sector , the biggest emitter, where w e had recently updated 
the National Energy Policy to trans ition the sector . Under this new 
policy, Malaysia will increas e the RE capacity mix in our electricity 
supply from the current 23% to 31% in 2025 and 40% in 2035.
 As we signed the Global Methane Pledge last year , Malaysia is taking the 
first step to reduce our methane emissions through our national oil 
company , Petronas, which has a goal to achieve 50 per cent methane 
emissions reduction for domestic natural gas value chain by 2030. 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 

3. In December 2021, Malaysia experienced one of th e worst flood 
events in national history with losses estimated at 1.4 billion US 
Dollars within the space of one week . People were displaced, many 
lives were lost. It is estimated that Malaysia will require close to 85 
billion US dollars for the next 50 years to adapt to impacts of climate 
change . A huge amount for a developing nation such as ours. 
 
4. Therefore, climate finance is important to assist developing countries 
to implement climate action s. The fulfilment of the 100 billion US 
dollars per year goal, by developed countries is paramount, in order 
to restore confidence and trust. Additionally, e nsuring successful and 
effective implementation of the Convention and its Paris Agreement 
is contingent upon receiving capacity building, technical support as 
well as access to clean technology. We also look forward to a 
concrete outcom e on a post -2025 climate finance goal, drawing 
lessons from the unfulfilled 100 billion US Doll ar goal . 
 
Common But Differentiated Responsibilities 
5. Hence, t his COP needs to produce concrete decisions. Malaysia 
continues to reiterate our call to developed country Parties to uphold their 
Convention obligations. There is still time to realise that clarion 
call to achieve the objectives of the Convention and its Paris 
Agreement , in accordance with the principles of equity and common 
but differentiated responsibilities with respective capabilities. Without 
new, additional , predictable and adequate finance from developed 
country parties , the urgently -needed climate actions by developi ng 
countries will be delayed, hampering progress to achieve the Paris 
Agreement goal and putting our planet at risk of irreversible climate 
damage . 
Thank you . 
 
 
 