 
 
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
INTERVENTION BY 
MR BRIGHT BRATSO KUMWEMBE  
 
CHIEF DIRECTOR FOR ENVIRONMENT AND 
CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES, 
ENERGY AND MINING 
(LEADER OF DELEGATION) 
AT 
 
THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE TALANOA DIALOGUE 
DURING 
THE 2 4TH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE 
UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION 
ON CLIMATE CHANGE  
KAT OWICE, POLAND , 11TH DEC EMBER 2018 
 
 
 
➢ Excellencies, 
➢ Distinguished Delegates, 
➢ Ladies and Gentlemen. 
 
Mr. President , Malawi would like to share her Climate Talanoa 
experience. We have listened to their Excellencies on their very 
touching interventions and stri des from different parts of the world. 
 
In recent times, the German Watch has ranked Malawi as the 3rd most 
vulnerable country to climate change risk. In the year 2015, the country 
experienced unprecedented devastating floods that affected 1.1 
million people, displaced 230,000 people, killed 176 people with 172 
people reported missing . This is climate injustice against humanity. The 
floods also left homes and schools submerged in water and roads 
washed away. People were trapped in their villages by the 
floodwaters. A joint search and rescue operation by the Malawi P olice 
Service and t he Malawi Defence Force rescue d people who were 
trapped by floodwaters. A post -disaster needs assessment (PDNA) 
which was undertaken estimated damages and losses at about US$335 
million while the cost of recovery and reconstruction needs was 
estimated at US$494 million. In 2016, Malawi was affected by an El Nino 
induced drought which affected six million seven hundred thousand 
people. A PDNA of the 2016 drought estimated damages and losses at 
US$365.9 million while recovery requirements were estimated at 
US$500.2 million . 
 
Projections , unfortunately, show that Southern Africa, Malawi inclusive, 
will continue to receive less precipitation as such droughts will be more 
frequent. 
 
Where are we? 
Malawi’s total GHG emissions accounts only for about 0.02 percent of 
global GHG emissions. But yet we are feeling the adverse effects. 
Malawi has adopted a National Climate Change Management Policy 
to guide actions to reduce human and ecosystem vulnerabili ty to 
climate change through adaptation and mitigation, technology 
transfer, and capacity building. Malawi has also developed the Malawi 
National Climate Change Investment Plan which details climate 
change initiatives that t he government and its stakeholde rs have 
committed to undertake as part of its global commitments under the 
UNFCCC. In addition, we are in the process of establishing a National 
Climate Change Fund to help position Malawi to leverage new streams 
of finance to invest in a more climate -resilient future, and encourage 
more ambition. 
 
As part of building national resilience, Malawi has developed a 
National Resilience Strategy covering a period of 12 years from 2019 – 
2030 and a programme for implementation . The Government requests 
all coopera ting partners to assist in meeting the costs of this 
programme (US$20.5 million).  
 
Where do we want to go? 
Under the available frameworks, Malawi aims at increasing climate 
resilience, improve food security, increase adaptive capacity of the 
vulnerable people, restore degraded ecosystems and landscapes, 
improve land use and promote climate -resilient agriculture . renewable 
energy, and contribute to REDD+ actions . 
 
 
 How do we get there? 
In order to achieve our targets , there are several things that are 
required to facilitate and catalyse transition to an inclusive, low -
emission, and climate -resilient development. We need adequate , 
predictable , accessible and sustainable finance. All forms of finance – 
public and private, domestic and international – are essential and they 
should be seen as complementary and mutually reinforcing Finance 
must be coupled wi th relevant technology tran sfer and capacity 
building for implementation of ambitious emission reduction targets. As 
for Malawi, there is strong political will and commitment to achieve the 
set targets. However, we also require political will and commitment by 
the international comm unity to achieve the objectives and targets we 
have all set and agreed in the various Climate Change Treaties. 
 
I thank you. 