1 
 STATEMENT BY HON. MS. ISNARAISSAH MUNIRAH MAJILIS , 
DEPUTY MINISTER OF ENERGY, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE , MALAYSIA 
 
COP -25/CMP -15/CMA -2 RESUMED HIGH -LEVEL SEGMENT 
 10-11 DECEMBER 2019 , MADRID, SPAIN 
 
Madam President, Excellences , ladies and gentlemen, 
 
1. We congratulate Chile as the new COP -25 President and we assure 
you of Malaysia’s full support . 
 
2. We thank the people and Government of Spain for the excellent 
hosting of COP25 and the hospitality extended to me and my 
delegation. 
 
Madam President, Excellences , ladies and gentlemen, 
 
3. Malaysia recently launched the Shared Prosperity Vision 2030 as the 
national blueprint that focuses on sustainable development, 
economic growth, evidence based policy making, addressing income 
gaps, enhancing unity and inclusivity. 
 
4. Malaysia stands committed in addressing climate change under the 
Convention and delivering outcomes of the Paris Agreement . To this 
end, Malaysia continues to expand the policy, regulatory and financial 
ecos ystem necessary to nurture green economy, low-carbon and 
sustainable development . 
 
 2 
 5. We continue to nurture the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency 
Sector and have set a target of achieving 20% renewable energy by 
capacity in its generation mix by 2025 . 
 
6. Malaysia has recently repurposed an existing agency, the Malaysia 
Green Technology Corporation , as the Malaysia Green Technology 
and Climate Change Centre . 
 
Madam President, Excellences , Ladies and Gentlemen , 
 
7. At this COP , Parties are being urged to raise ambitions . In Malaysia ’s 
view, the key to unlocking this level of ambition lies squarely in Article 
4.7 of the Convention. It hinges on the notion that equity and the 
principle of common -but differentiated responsibilit ies and respective 
capabilities. 
 
8. We would like to recall that the Convention obliges developed 
country Parties to lead mitigation actions . Hence, we urge developed 
countries to fulfil their reporting obligations and enhance action s to 
fill emissions reduction and means of implementation gaps in the pre -
2020 period. Additionally, the replenishment of the Green Climate 
Fund is of paramount importance . 
 
9. Ladies and gentlemen, Malaysia welcomes cooperation from all 
Parties and international agencies to augment our domestic climate 
actions. 
 
Madam President, I end by reassuring you and all Parties, that Malaysia is 
committed to work constructively towards a successful COP -25. 
 
Thank you. 