  
 
1 
 
CHECK AGAINST DELIVERY 
 Remarks by 
His Excellency Dr Mohamed Muizzu , 
President of the Republic of Maldives 
at the 
High -level Segment of the 28th Conference of the Parties (COP28) to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
 
  
 
Bismillah -hir-rahman -nir-raheem 
 
His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President 
of the United Arab Emirates , 
 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen , 
 
I extend my gratitude to the UAE for its exceptional hospitality, 
and inclusive, strong leadership.  
 
The Maldives pledges its full support to ensure COP28 and the 
UAE Presidency is a resounding success.   
 
2 
 
 
We also congratulate Egypt for its successful COP Presidency. 
 
I took office as President of the Maldives just 15 days ago. 
Promising to protect our national interests. Promising a 
prosperous future for every Maldivian. A promise I intend to do 
everything in my power to keep. 
 
I did so, knowing there are things beyond the control of my small 
nation. One such issue is climate change.  
 
On behalf of our people, allow me to outline our expectations 
for COP28: 
 
First, the Global Stocktake must commit to a plan that corrects 
our cour se towards a 1.5-degree pathway, in line with the Paris 
Agreement 
  
 
3 
 
It must be based on equity and the best available science.  
 
And it must inform the next set of more ambitious NDCs. 
 
Second, we must close the climate finance gap.  
 
We’ve been repeating this same message every year.  
 
Yet we are still far from reaching this goal. 
 
We need new, adequate, and predictable finance for ambitious 
climate action, with priority for adaptation. 
 
The global financial architecture also needs a major overhaul. In 
a world where the climate is changing faster than ever, we 
cannot wait to overcome red tape. To prove bankability. To 
demonstrate viability.  
  
 
4 
 
Accessibility must be improved. And assessment criteria must be 
revised.  
 
And finally, I’m delighted by the decision taken yesterday to 
operationalise the Loss and Damage Fund. 
 
I thank our host, the UAE, for leading the way, and other 
countries following suit, in making substantial pledges to the 
Fund. I’m confident many more will follow suit. 
 
In our island nations, every coral, every grain of sand, every fish, 
and every palm tree, carry value.  
 
Their loss is a loss to our economy. For our country.  
 
We need habitable ecosystems to support our lives and 
livelihoods. To rebuild them from rapid and slow onset events 
that damage them.    
 
5 
 
We hope the Fund will be fit for purpose. And easily accessible 
to those who need it the most.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
Responding to your call for greater mitigation ambition, my 
government aims to install renewable energy systems that can 
meet thirty three per cent of the country’s electricity demand  in 
the next five years. Currently it stands at four percent . To achieve 
that, we aim to raise at least 600 million dollars. We could do 
that only with your support. 
 
Building resilience of our islands is a priority. As such, we pledge 
to embark on a five million trees project across the country. 
   
 
6 
 
Mr President ,  
 
As a father, I have a responsibility to my children. To their future.  
As a leader, I have a responsibility to my people. 
As a global citizen, I have a responsibility to my planet.  
As do all of you.  
 
Let us ensure that our deliberations and our actions lead to 
concrete outcomes ; that allow us to fulfil our responsibilities.  
 
For people and for the planet. For our children and their children 
after them . 
 
Let us secure a brighter future for us all. 
 
I thank you. 
 
  
 
7 
 
 