
Merhba , 
I feel particularly honoured to participate at this COP22 in Marrakech. I thank the Moroccan 
authorities for their impeccable organi sation, warm hospitality and their keen determination to 
remind us that this COP is a unique opportunity to walk the talk. In Paris, we collectively 
managed to make history by agreeing on an ambitious legally -binding agreement, applicable to 
all States. In Marrakech, we have the responsibility to maintain the momentum and through the 
same spirit of compromise, t ransparency and inclusiveness that characterized our days in Paris, 
we now pass on to the harder phase, namely the implementation phase.  
Malta is proud to announce that we have ratified the Paris Agreement and therefore remained on 
the forefront in imple menting climate action on a global level, within the European Union and 
at the domestic level. Malta’s determination to switch to a low carbon economy is characterized 
by a vision, based on the long -term, socio -economic, and environmental benefits of green house 
gas emissions reduction. Malta had to overcome significant challenges to meet its greenhouse 
gas objectives especially as we are committed to ambitious and robust legal targets with other 
EU Member States. We remain committed to forge ahead and to id entify any possible 
opportunities that aim for further reductions. Malta’s opportunities emerging within the Energy 
Sector are being fully capitalized to reduce emissions. As the energy generation sector is by far 
Malta’s highest contributor to national G reen House Gas (GHG) emissions, these measures are 
leading to excellent results. 
Like other EU Member States we have experienced the decoupling of economic and emissions 
growth. Since 1990 to date, our GDP has grown by 260%, yet our GHG emissions per unit G DP 
have decreased. We experienced a reduction of 22% in emissions intensity throughout the time 
period 2004 – 2014 alone. Malta’s GHG per/capita in 2014 stood at 7.8 tonnes of CO 2 
equivalent and is thus even below EU average. Due to significant infrastruct ural investments we 
managed a reduction of 33% in energy use in 2015 as compared to 2010. The introduction of 
new policies and measures in electricity generation included the installation of new and efficient 
energy generating capacity to replace inefficie nt plant s; a submarine electrical connection to the 
European grid and the switch to the use of natural gas instead of Heavy Fuel Oil. Malta’s 
National Energy Efficiency Action Plan and the National Renewable Energy Action Plan 
outline the drive to increase energy efficiency, particularly from an end -use perspective, and the 
promotion of renewable energy sources as the major steps that have been and will be taken. We
 introduced energy demand efficiency measures, as well as incentives for Photo Voltaic (PV) 
installations for the domestic, commercial and industrial sectors. 
Low emission policies and measures in other sectors include the introduction of autogas, the 
promotion of biodiesel use; a public transport reform and modal shift and the promotion of the 
use of electric vehicles. In the Agriculture, Waste and Land Use sectors we are pursuing the 
modernization of agricultural holdings; the implementation of a nitrates action programme; the 
capping and extraction of gases from managed landfills; as well as th e setting up biological and 
wastewater treatment plants. 
Malta is also undertaking commitments in its mitigation and adaptation policies through the 
implementation of a Climate Action Act which ensures that legal measures for all sectors will 
be under pinn ed to set up the required institutional capacity to monitor, review and verify our 
reduction targets and adaptation measures, secure better climate governance and ensure the 
necessary forward planning. 
With respect to Climate Finance, as an EU Member Stat e, Malta remains committed to the 
efforts that the EU undertakes in its contributions to climate action to financially and technically 
support developing countries through the EU budget and the mobilization of the Green Climate 
Fund (GCF) . Malta is proud t o recall that as part of its climate finance commitment, it is 
providing technical support as capacity building in human resources to States most vulnerable 
to climate change. By 
- Offering nationals from these States, fully funded scholarships in special ized studies 
related to climate action at the University of Malta; and  
- Providing assistance and training at a policy making, vocational and institutional level . 
In conclusion, given Malta’s minute size, our lacking economies of scale, a population den sity 
that is amongst the highest in the world, as well as our peripheral geophysical position, our 
determination to address greenhouse gas emissions and reduce them, are met with innumerable 
challenges. In our endeavours, however we have definitely committ ed to exploring the benefits 
of a low carbon economy with the aspiration to look as far into the future as 2050 in our 
strategic planning. 
In the end, it is ensuring the wellbeing of our people that is at stake and greenhouse gas 
reduction definitely marks a step in this direction. It also consolidates our commitment, 
notwithstanding our small size, to address a global challenge that is a common concern of 
humankind. 

 