 
1 
 Excellencies , 
 
Dear f riends , 
 
As world leaders and policy makers , we need to keep asking 
ourselves a fundamental question.  
 
How significant is our contribution to slowing down climate 
change?  
 
Coming from one of the smalle r nations and an Island State , we 
have recognized that implementing change , however small or 
minute our contribution , is crucial for succeeding in the goal of 
addressing climate change. 
 
A reduction in the concentration of carbon in our atmosphere , 
and the lowering of global temperatur es require two things: 
 
1. Commitment; and 
 
2. Ambition.  
 
Our presence at COP year after year is a manifestation of our 
commitment to the Paris principles , as well as our resolve to 
keep the 1.5 degree target alive.  
2 
 
Now we must move beyond ! 
 
Statements o f goodwill are indeed important , however it is 
concrete action that will deliver results. 
 
Our actions – or inaction - will define our relationship with our 
planet. 
 
At this moment, this relationship is fragile. So much so, I dare 
say, that this climate crisis is a threat to our global security. 
 
Countries all over the world are being battered by climatic 
extremes . 
 
from rising sea levels , to devastating storms . 
from drought , to floods . 
from excessive heat , to water scarcity .  
 
It is also no secret th at smaller state s, especially islands like 
Malta, and vulnerable countries, are paying the higher price ; 
even though they are the ones that have least contributed to 
the release of carbon through the combustion of fossil fuels 
over the years. 
 
3 
 Going forwa rd, the future that we want to create should be 
based on the equality of nations, without distinction. 
 
If we want to aim for success in mitigating climate change, we 
must recognize the differentiated impact it has , especially upon 
the most vulnerable. 
 
Having sa id all this however, it is also true that our size can be 
used to our advantage. For us , this is an existential threat and 
our industry has to be innovative in the way it prepares itself for 
the yea rs ahead. 
 
We do not have the scale , nor perhaps the capacity to develop 
new technologies to make a difference globally . However, we 
are probably best placed to serve as a testbed for them . 
 
As part of the ambitious Green House Gas emission reduction 
programme – the EU’s Fit for 55 package, Malta , my co untry, is 
willing to do its part. We are confident that the actions we are 
implementing as part of our low carbon development strategy 
will lead us to climate neutrality by 2050. 
 
Resolve, climate discipline and sound fiscal and monetary 
policies coupled with investments in digitalization, robust 
4 
 energy policies, electrification and renewables , will get us 
where we need to be. 
 
Simultaneously, we also recognize that we need to help o thers , 
and w e are doing this through action in the following ways : 
 
Firstly, by supporting countries experiencing climate -related 
disasters. By way of example, last week the Maltese 
Government sent substantial medical assistance to Pakistan 
following the devastating floods. 
 
Secondly , through assistance for others in their p aths towards 
decarboni sation. 
 
Last year , in Glasgow , I had announced the Island for Islands 
initiative expressing Malta’s willingness to provide assistance to 
small island develop ing states , with whom we share common 
climate predicaments.  
 
Through this initiative, utilising our expertise in water 
management, we are providing technical assistance to island s 
like us – for enhanced resource use, greater return on 
investments , and more resilience to climate induced scarcities.  
 
5 
 This year, my government h as also focused on a structured 
stakeholder dialogue with the private sector, and this has 
generated a crucial momentum to drive the green and just 
transition. 
 
And o ur efforts will continue ! 
 
Discussing our experiences, the lessons learnt, and the options 
for a decarboni sed economy are central to this initiative, and 
we wish to share further with Small Island Developing States. 
 
To enhance capacity building , we shall be providing 
scholarships to students coming from other islands to 
undertake climate r elated studies at the University of Malta .  
 
Moreover, I am proud to announce that as we already did last 
year, Malta will be doubling its contribution to the International 
Climate Fund. Through contributions to this fund , further work 
will be actioned around the world.  
 
Finally , I would like to underline a point about our ocean and 
cryosphere. Sea level rises cause d by climate change should 
not affect any rights which island s and coastal nations currently 
have over their land and maritime jurisdiction. 
 
6 
 Dear friends, 
 
Allow me to reiterate the appeal conveyed by many colleagues, 
leaders, changemakers , and youths. 
 
Let us lead our generation’s revolution like our forefathers did 
theirs. 
 
The Green Revolution will lead to shared benefits. Affordable 
clean energy, healthy air , and enough food for all. 
 
Let us be ambitious !! 
 
Let us be commit ted !! 
 
And let us deliver !! 
 
For all people !! 
 
For our future !! 