1 
 NATIONAL STATEMENT TO BE DELIVERED BY MINISTER HERRERA AT 
UNFCCC COP 2 3 IN BONN (Presided by FIJI) 
 
Salutations , 
 
Nibula  
 
I feel particularly honoured to participate at this COP here in Bonn , 
which for the very first time is being held under the Presidenc y of Fiji, a 
small island developing State . I also wish to thank the German 
authorities for their impeccable organization. This formidable 
partnership between Germany and Fiji, highlights the achievements of 
cooperation between UNFCCC State Parties, notwi thstanding their 
diversity. 
 
I congratulate Fiji for its strong determination to lead this multilateral 
proces s. Each Presidency brings it s own legacy to the COP and faced 
with the imminent threat of the effects of climate change to its 
vulnerable shores and scarce territory , Fiji’s legacy highlights the 
determination for no further procrastination. Malta fully endorses this 
approach. 
 
 2 
 The best way of showing solidarity with individuals and countries who 
have borne the brunt of recent extreme weather ev ents is to 
strengthen our resolve to work incessantly with our partners to ensure 
that COP 23, as the interim COP, fulfills a number of deliverables . 
 
The Talanoa Dialogue has been provid ingspace for both Parties and 
non Party stakeholders to show case pr ogress, share best practices and 
step up action. 
 
It is crucial to ensure the continuous development of the GCAA in 
catalyzing climate action and for multi stake holder action to engage 
actively within this forum . 
 
I must, also highlight that Malta fully welcomes the Oceans Pathway 
Inititative which the Fijian Presidency has prioritizied for this COP under 
the Global Climate Action Agenda. 
 
Work to enhance pre -2020 action remains a priority for the EU and its 
Member States, as does fulfilling our own comm itment to comply with 
pre-2020 obligations under the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol. It is 
with this in mind that I am pleased to announce that Malta will be 3 
 depositing its instrument of ratification of the Doha Amendment 
imminently together with the EU and other Member States. 
Malta has experienced the decoupling of economic and emissions 
growth.  Malta’s determination to switch to a low carbon economy is 
characteri zed by a vision, based on the long -term, socio -economic, and 
environmental benefits of GHG emissions reduction. 
 
Malta’s opportunities emerging within the Energy Sector are being fully 
capitalized to reduce emissions , particularly given the energy 
generation sector is by far Malta’s highest contributor to national GHG 
emissions .Low emission policies and measures in other sectors include 
the i ntroduction of autogas , the p romotion of biodiesel use; other 
reforms in the transport sector , modernization of agricutlural holdings, 
implementation of a nitrates action programme , and the setting up of 
biological and wastewater treatment plants which look at a long -term 
sustainable process towards 2050 that responds to climate mitigation 
efforts.  
 
Regarding Climate Finance , Malta is proud to recall that as part of its 
climate finance commitment, it is contributing to climate 
empowerment in developing countries. It provides technical support as 4 
 capacity building in human resources to States most vulnerable to 
climate change –by continuing to o ffer nationals from these States, fully 
funded scholarships in specialized studies related to climate action at 
the University of Malta . 
 
In Paris we have set clear milestones for COP 24, prior to that however 
we must ensure a successful COP 23 in order to achieve the expected 
results at COP 24. We must continue to work hard with the private 
sector, businesses and civil society . We just cannot set the clock back. 
 
Our determination to address GHG emissions and reduce them, are met 
with innumerable challenges. In our endeavours, however we are 
definitely committed to exploring the benefits of a low carbon economy 
with the aspiration to look as far into the future as 2050 in our strategic 
planning. In the end, it is ensuring the wellbeing of our people that is at 
stake .. It also consolidates our commitment, notwiths tanding our small 
size, to address a global challenge that is a common concern of 
humankind.  
 
 Thank you Mr/Madam Chair 