 
REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS 
 
H.E. Ambassador Doreen de Brum 
Permanent Representative to the United Nations Office in Geneva 
UNFCCC COP25 High -Level Statement 
Madrid, 11 December 2019 
 
Check against delivery 
 
 
Let me begin by wishing our Chilean Presidency and our Spanish hosts a warm Iakwe 
and greetings from the Marshall Islands. 
 
Your Excellencies, 
 
As a low -lying coral atoll nation, the Marshall Islands stands before you as one of the 
most vulnerable countri es on Planet Earth. 
 
My father, Tony deBrum once said: “The Ocean is made out of drops. Each one of us is 
responsible for one drop of Ocean. If she takes care of her drop, and he takes care of his 
drop, and I take care of mine, then we will be able to take care of the world.” 
 
Four years ago in Paris, my father was a key architect in creating hope that we would be 
given a pathway to survival. We continue to lead by example. That is why the Marshall 
Islands enhanced its own NDC last year and set a concrete p lan to reach net zero 
emissions by 2050. 
 
And while we welcome those that have said they will live up to their promises and 
enhance their ambition, the big message out of the UN Secretary -General’s Climate 
Action Summit was that more countries must now fo llow in our footsteps – especially the 
big emitters. 
 
In that context, we welcome the formation of the Climate Ambition Alliance, and have 
also led the Madrid Ambition Drive for Survival as part of our Presidency of the Climate 
Vulnerable Forum, and contin ue to encourage countries – including beyond our friends in 
the High Ambition Coalition – to join the Uniting Behind the Science to Step Up 
Ambition by 2020 statement that our President launched in September. 
 
We are carrying out an unprecedented effort to develop a National Adaptation Plan that 
could require the elevation of entire island communities. We and the world need to  
 
 
consider transformative adaptation solutions that will support our natural right to remain 
in our islands. 
 
Your Excellencies, 
 
As a large ocean nation, we believe that there needs to be better integration of ocean 
issues into the UNFCCC - and climate issues into ocean processes beyond the UNFCCC. 
 
We are not only an ocean nation, but we are also a nation dedicated to our youth. T hat is 
why Marshallese youth have created a solutions coalition. That is why we also encourage 
more countries to join the Kwon -Gesh Youth Pledge . 
 
And this October, we became the smallest country ever to secure a seat on the UN 
Human Rights Council. We wil l also use that platform to fight for climate and nuclear 
justice. 
 
Your Excellencies, 
 
We also know that not every drop of the ocean is being looked after. We continue to 
promote stewardship by the international community, and welcome support for the 
mean ingful participation of ROC Taiwan in the UNFCCC. If we were truly serious that 
“no is left behind”, we would recognize and afford Taiwan the opportunity to participate 
in global mechanisms, negotiations, and activities that promote the implementation of t he 
Paris Agreement in just the same way as any other country. 
 
Your Excellencies, 
 
Here in Madrid we also have other opportunities to demonstrate we are one step closer to 
providing the pathway that my country was promised. 
 
This means walking away with ou tcomes on Article 6 and common timeframes that 
promote environmental integrity and ambition, and boost efforts under the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss & Damage to address the worst and irreversible 
impacts. 
 
 
 
 
Your Excellencies, 
 
If there has been one clear message from Mother Nature this past year, it has been that we 
are on the edge of the precipice. In our country we experienced 16 -foot swells that 
displaced our community members on top of a months -long dengue outbreak that has 
pushed our he alth system to its limits. We must do more than simply offer our thoughts 
and prayers. That is why we must now follow through with concrete action to increase 
ambition. 
 
Your Excellencies 
 
If I may, I want to take a moment to turn to a topic of special int erest to the Marshall 
Islands and the UNFCCC. In July of this year, Steve Sawyer, former Director of 
Greenpeace International, passed away. Steve is especially dear to the people of the 
Marshall Islands 
because he led the evacuation of the people of Ron gelap who suffered from severe 
radiation sickness due to the fallout of Bikini Atoll nuclear testing. In recent years, he 
played perhaps the most instrumental role of any individual in the development of wind 
energy globally. Steve was one of the world’s most dedicated champions in the fight to 
address the climate crisis. To him, it represented: a “struggle to the death for the future 
of the planet.” So to galvanize our ongoing efforts, I would like to pause for a moment of 
silence in his memory. 