0 
 
23rd meeting of the Conference of Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 
 
 
ADDRESS BY 
H.E Dr Kheswar JANKEE 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary 
Mauritius Embassy, Berlin 
 
 
Republic of Mauritius 
 
 
Bonn , Germany 
16 November 2017 
 1 
 Mr President , 
Excellencies 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
At the very outset, the Republic of Mauritius wishes to associate itself with the 
statements delivered by distinguished Minister of Ecuador on behalf of the 
‘Group 77 and China’ , by distinguished Minister of Gabon on behalf of the ‘ Africa 
Group’ and by distinguished Minister of Maldives on behalf of the ‘ Alliance of 
Small Island States’ . 
Allow me to thank and congratulate Honorable Frank Bainimarama , the Prime 
Minister of Fiji for his election as President of the COP23 and the government 
of Germany for hosting this august event in the historic city of Bonn. 
Mr President, 
Africa n and Small Island State s will continue to ring the alarm bell as they are 
witnessing accentuating adverse impacts with increasing death tol l as a result 
of extreme climatic events. Various speakers have already alluded to the recent 
catastrophic extreme climatic events that occurred in the various parts of the 
planet , namely , the series of devastating storms in the Caribbean’s; the 
extremely severe famine in Africa; the dreadful monsoon in South -Asia; and the 
unusual high number of ravaging wildfires recorded in Europe. With these stark 
facts, it is obvious that climate change is spreading its tentacles across the entire 
planet disrupting livelihood s and threatening the very existence of the most 
vulnerable people s. It is therefore urgent to act and translate words into actions. 
 2 
 As much as w e would all agree that a major milestone was reached in 2015 at 
COP 21 in Paris , with the adoption of the Paris Agreement , nevertheless we must 
concede that 2 years down the line the challenges ahead are huge. Many 
countries in Africa and Small Island S tates are struggling to keep pace in 
honor ing their voluntary pledges . Developing nations like ours are finding it 
arduous to mobilize resources to cope with accentuating climate change 
impacts . We are also being required to invest massively to fight poverty, 
sustained agricultural production, provide clean water and other ba sic 
necessities to our citizens, the most vulnerable and needy ones in particular.  
Mr President, 
It is good to remind ourselves that SIDS and most African countries altogether 
emit less than 5% of the global GHG , and yet they are the ones which are being 
disproportionately impacted . Despite their in significantly low contribution to 
global GHG emission s they have demonstrated solidarity with industrialized 
nations and are committed to take bold climat e change mitigation initiatives with 
the promotion of Renewable Energy Technologies . We are glad to note that all 
SIDS have submitted their INDCs . However , the pathway to progress towards 
their implementation agenda is still blurred and severely hindered due to limited 
means of implemen tation. 
On the other hand, t he share of global emissions covered by NDC is only around 
87.6% . This reduction in global GHG emission would still imply a median 
warming of 2.6 –3.1 degrees Celsius by 2100. I therefore wish to appeal to the 
leade rs of the industrialized country Parties to seriously upscale their GHG 
emission reduction efforts in order to meet the set targets of the Paris Climate 
Agreement to maintain global temperature rise to well below 2 degree Celsius . 3 
 We need to also remind ourselves that this year overshoot day was on 2nd 
August. The 2nd of August was the day when we have used more from nature 
than our planet can renew in the whole year. It is high time that we consume 
and produce sustainably. 
Mr President, 
Mauritius is deeply resolved to do its fair share. We have no choice but rather 
an obligation to preserve the livelihood s of our people who are dependent on 
climate sensitive sectors and resources such as agriculture, fisheries, tourism 
and water . It is worth noting that the 2016 World Risk Report had ranked 
Mauritius as the 13th country with the highest disaster risk and 7th as the most 
exposed to natural hazards. Mauritius has experienced an increase in air 
temperature by up to 1.1 degree Celsius over the last few decades and the sea 
level is rising at an accelerated rate of 5.6 mm per year . In both cases, these 
figures exceed the global average s. A reduction of 8% over the last 50 years 
has also been observed in the annual precipitation . The width of our beaches, 
which is a major pillar of our economy, has been eroded by some 10 metres 
over the last 8 years . According to the UN report ‘ SIDS in Numbers 2017’ 
published this year, Mauritius is p rojected to become a water stressed country 
by 2025 and its agricultural production may decline by as much as 30%. 
We are also determined to fight our way to keep our small island nation afloat. 
To achieve this, Mauritius is already investing considerable amount of its own 
resources which amount to more than 2 percent of its GDP annually , that is , 
roughly USD 25 0 milli on per year , on climate change related measures . It is 
unfortunate that funds which could have been used to addressing poverty 
alleviation and improving quality of life are instead being diverted towards 4 
 addressing climate change. The predicament for SIDS, acc ording the UN report 
‘SIDS in Numbers 2017’ , is that the economic costs of climate change fo r Small 
Island S tates are projected at 15 percent of GDP or more. This is a serious issue 
for SIDS and their economies are highly vulnerable. 
Mr President, 
In light of the above, Mauritius has already identified a series of audacious 
measures to promote both adaptation and to abate its GHG emissions. 
Addressing Climate Change is central and critical to the successful 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda which have been outlined by the 
Government of Mauritius. The Government is fully support ing sectors such as 
agriculture and fisheries by adopting smart agriculture and fisheries concepts . 
Bio-technology, bio-farming , aquaculture as well as the ocean economy sector s 
are being promoted. The water sector is also being strengthened and 
modernized to improve water storage and distribution around the clock . 
Beaches are also being rehabilitated.  
The Government has also taken serious measures to improve response and 
preparedness to disasters . Mauritius has enacted a National Disaster Risk 
Reduction and Management Act since March 2016 and in order t o effectively 
manage flooding and water accumulation Mauritius has also enacted a Land 
Drainage Authority Act in April 2017 . An Early Warning System for storm surges 
with 3 days probabilistic and 6 hours deterministic capability has also been 
developed . A modern and fully equipped refuge center to support vulnerable 
comm unities is under construction . A climate change bill is also nearing 
finalization and it aims at consolidating the legal framework towards enhancing 
resilience and achieving a low emission economy . 5 
 As far as mitigation measures are concerned, the G overnment of Mauritius in 
collaboration with the private sectors is investing massively in sectors such as 
renewable energy, transport sector modern isation , promotion of resilient 
infrastructures and efficient wastes management strategy . For instance, s ome 
10,000 roof top solar panels will be provided to low income household over the 
next 5 years and solar PV farms will be constructed. It is also supporting a Deep 
Ocean Water Application Air -Conditioning system project which is an innovative 
low-carbon t echnology. This alone will help to achieve an annual reduction of 
around 40,000 tonnes of GHG emissions.  
Mauritius is also modernizing its inland transport system and related facilities 
with the setting up of the M etro express , which is a mass transit system with the 
support of the Government of India . This will require investment to the tune of 
USD 500 million . This project will principally alleviate traffic congestion which 
actually cost as much as USD 120 m illion annually .  
Mauritius has also already initiated actions on one hand to develop a low carbon 
emission strategy and on the other hand to determine the most appropriate and 
feasible adaptation measures for various socio -economic sectors. 
We are already fully engaged in the implementation phase of our N ationally 
Determined Contributions (NDC) . Here we recognize the valuable support of 
various i nternational partners such as the European Union, the French 
Government, and the Japanese Government , among others. I also wish to take 
this opportunity to thank our benefactors for their unwavering support . 
Mr President , 6 
 Our mere determination will not suffice. As mentioned by many of the 
distinguished speakers, we will need the technical and financial support of 
developed countries to make good progress in term of GHG emission reduction 
and to make Mauritius a climate resilient nation. Our major challenges remain 
access to funding in addition to capacity building , and technology development 
and transfer. 
At this COP23 , we n eed to effectively progress with bold action -oriented 
initiatives . We need to f ocus on the technical implementation aspects of the 
operationalization of the Paris Agreement and equally important pre-2020 
actions. In spite the fact that most of us are convinced of the urgency to act, yet 
only 83 countries have ratified the Doha Amendments. I urge those Parties 
which have not yet deposited their instrument of acceptance to do so 
expediently. 
Once again , I wish to make a humble call for sustained leaders hip from 
developed countries and solidarity from the developing countries for all of us to 
make timely and reasonable progress in the right direction. I also wish to 
commend the remarkable contributions of cities, private sectors, women, youth, 
local communities and individual in the fight against climate change. 
Allow me to conclude by quoting William Shakespeare , I quote: “It is not in the 
stars to hold our destiny but in ourselves. ” end of quote. 
On this note, I wish to thank you all for your kind attention. 