 
 Thank you Mr. President 
His Majesty Mohammed VI, King of Morocco 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
I join other speakers in extending appreci ation  
to the Government and people of Morocco  
for the outstanding  hospitality extended to me and my 
delegation since our arrival here in Marrakech.  
THE PARIS AGREEMENT 
It has been eleven months since Paris. 
And since Paris we have made some progress. 
Some,  significant in and of themselves,  
but lack the force of effec tiveness  
if not strengthened by more positive actions. 
 
 Most notable is the entry into force  
of the Paris Agreement itself, making  this agreement  
an implementable , working document to aid and guide  
our efforts on our work on climate change. 
Micronesia will continue its efforts 
to help contribute to our collective  stand  
toward reversing,  and eventually stopping  
the adverse effects of climate change  
to our lands, to our oceans, and to our environment. 
 
Last month in Kigal,, the parties to Montreal Protocol  
reached agree ment to phase down HFCs under the treaty.  
While Micronesia takes a certain pride  
in being the initial  sponsor of efforts  
to phase down and out the chemical product,  
 our greater satisfaction truly lies in being able 
to call the attention of nations to this one culprit . 
Micronesia was most gratified  
by the subsequent avalanche of support  
from nations, including  industrial communities  
who have agreed to join the effort .  
On this note I wish to thank our host, the Kingdom of 
Morocco , for joining our efforts very early on. 
The Kigali treaty on HFCs translates  
to potentially eliminating some 70 – 80 billion tons 
of greenhouse toxic chemical  
being emitted into our atmosphere,  
thus preventing  a half-decree of temperature rise. 
A small feat that goes the distance,  
and another mark on our chart of success.  
 Another exemplary show of cooperation  
between nations, big and small. 
 
 
THEN THERE IS ENERGY , the engine of development.  
One that thrives on traditional fossil fuel, 
a source of energy, long the catalyst,  
and now known to contribute to the demise of our atmosphere. 
In and of itself not the fault, but the excess of it 
can no longer be ignored as needing to be replaced. 
We must work EXTRA hard, and with deliberate dedication  
to assist the industrial communities take the lead 
in their own good effort and leadership  
to change to an alternate source to power their needed , 
ongoing development.  
 TO THIS END, We must re-shuffle our priorities  
and move the development of altern ate energy source up front, 
and deal with it with heightened capacity as if our lives 
depended on it. 
A stronger alternate energy source will mean  
not simply a bearable environment.  
There will be light for more,  
there will be better health for more.  
Let us put momentum into our movement  
that the tyranny of time may become less demanding  
that we can concentrate on matters  
more substantial and consequential in our war 
 to save our planet earth for the sake of her people. 
 
 
 AGAINST NEW CHALLENGES 
Our work in progress must continue  
even against new odds and speculations  
that certain recent events in America  
may not aid our efforts on Climate Change.  
That is just anothe r challenge in our path,  
one we must own up to. 
We must have faith that our cause  
is too JUST to be waylaid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOUNTAIN S TO CROSS 
It is said: Behind every mountain, is another mountain. 
Yesterday, I saw the majestic Atlas mountain ranges,  
and was told there are other mountain ranges beyond.  
Now I know what I had not known. 
Now we know what we had known . 
While we have overcome mountains of challenges,  
and know of more challenges ahead of us, 
at least we are now armed with good knowledge  
about what has caused the problems we face,  
and more importantly ,,what challenges lie ahead of us, 
and what we need in order to succeed. 
While we can carve a few marks on a tree to keep tap on our 
progress, we are quite aware that much, much more remain to 
be done, and our work is far from complete.   
 FromTHE ART OF WAR 
Sun Tsu advised: 
The good warrior must know the terrain before the battle.  
To win a war, really , is the result  
of winning smaller battle engagements.  
To win the war, there must be adequate supplies  
to sustain troops, and proper armaments to fight with. 
This is good advice for us 
on the power of knowledge and sound strategy . 
 
 
 We must quickly develop more robust approaches to 
adaptation, and mitigate  
some of the loss and damage that countries like Micronesia  
and other Pacific Island States face on a daily basis.  
 Driving around the Kingdom  
I can see why the effect of Climate Change  
on oceanic communities  can seem to simply be a mirage 
 by some contine ntal people. 
For oceanic communities,  
this is not an abstract or distant issue.  
For us, for me, for the communities I serve,  
the resulting loss and damage due to Climate Change  
is upfront, present, and real. 
And for all of these elements— 
mitigation, ,,,adaptation, ,,, loss and damage ,,,— 
we need an abundant suppl y of knowledge in capacity,  
financial armaments , and technology transfer  
that will make our critical work to adapt and mitigate  
possible.  
 
Finally, on the issue of accessing climate chang e 
and other adaptation and mitigation dedicated funds,  
we all agree that the bureaucracy is surrounded  
by heavily -built firewalls too complicated to penetrate.  
The process must be simp lified, and be more user-friendly. 
 
 
Our recent successes,  
the Paris Agreement,  
the recent aviation emissions agreement,  
and the HFC phase down agreement, 
will have built even more momentum  
for multi -lateral  and national action on climate change.  
 
 I thank the ministers, who have worked hard… 
their technicians,  specialists,  advisers,  and volunteers  
for their dedication to keeping our agenda moving . 
A job well done!! ( applause?) 
 
Finally, leaders, ladies, and gentlemen … 
We know the way ahead.  
It is what it is.  
The climbing won’t be easy, but not impossible .  
Join me please,  
let us continue to climb,  
one mountain at a time.  
Thank you very much. 
 