 
Mr. President, 
Mr. Secretary -General, 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
I wish to convey my heartfelt con gratulat ions to the Government of the United 
Kingdom for hosting the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Chan ge and wish every success to the work 
of the session. 
 
It is universally acknowledged that in order to achieve the goals of the Paris 
Agreement by 2050, every country needs to reconsider its efforts and strive together 
through a bold and comprehensive policy. 
 
This challenging time when the humanity is facing the scourge of the COVID -19 
pandemic reminds us that we need to change our attitude towards nature and take bold 
and decisive measures to accelerate green growth. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Mongolia, as one of the most vulnerable countries to climate change, fully sup ports 
efforts of the international community to reach net -zero emissions and reaffirms its 
commitments to the Paris Agreement and to mobilize every possible resource to fulfill 
them. 
 
Mongolia raised its target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a main cause of 
climate change, to 22.7 per cent by 203 0, through updating its Nationally Determined 
Contributions. 
 
I am pleased to announce from this podium that there is an opportunity to increase 
our commitment to 27.2 per cent through introduction of advanced technology and 
innovation and increase of nec essary funding. 
 
  
 Mr. President, 
 
It is crucial to develop a cross border energy network in the Northeast Asian region 
in order to meet its growing energy consumption and enhance production of renewable 
energy. 
 
Mongolia supports the Asian Super Grid Initiative for increasing renewable energy 
sources and improv ing energy supply in Northeast Asia. Within this framework , we are 
actively collaborating with the countries in the region to build a large energy complex 
based on the vast solar and wind resour ces of the Gobi region. 
 
Taking this opportunity, I would like to underscore that Mongo lia has successfully 
organized an I nternational Dialogue o n “Mongolia -Green Development” two weeks ago 
in Ulaanbaatar ahead of the COP26 Summit. 
 
As a national contribution to combating climate change, Mongolia has launched a 
national campaign to plant billions of trees by 2030 in order to reach net -zero emission 
targets , reduce poverty or combat desertification through economic means, protect the 
health of children and women who are the most vulnerable to climate change, and 
improve overall quality of life. 
 
Thus, Mongolia has decided to spend at least 1 per cent of its GDP annually to 
mitigate adverse effects of climat e change and desertification. 
 
 Mongolians say "the source of life is water and the source of water is tree." We 
believe that the implementation of planting billions of trees initiative, which is the 
manifestation of our traditional culture to care for nature, will make a significant 
contribution to reducing dust storms that affect the ecology, health and economy of not 
only Asia, but also the Americas.  
 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Last but not least, I would like to emphasize the important role of a close regional 
and international cooperation in increasing capital inflows for low and middle -income 
countries to combat climate change. 
 
Only our common understanding, collaboration, resolve and perseverance are 
utmost important to achieve our mission to fight climate change, the world's greatest 
challenge of all time, and have a responsible approach to nature and leave a green er 
world for our descendants. 
 
It is time for the nations of the world to combine their efforts for this deed. 
 
I thank you for your attention. 
 