
Your Excellency Mr. Abdel Fattah el -Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, 
Your Excellency Mr. Antonio Guterres, Secretary -General of the United Nations, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
At the outset, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the Government of the 
Arab Republic of Egypt for successfully convening the 27th Session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the best wishes for a 
successfu l summit and conference. 
 
 The current session of the Conference of the Parties stands out for being held in 
Africa, which is severely affected by climate change. 
 
In these difficult time s, when the world is fac ed with significant challenges such as 
global food and energy crise s, rising price and geopolitical tensions, it is imperative that all 
countries remain committed to achieving the sustainable development goals and, intensify 
their actions, especially towards combatting climate change, without losing momentum . 
 
Soil, food and human beings are inextricably linked. Healthy soil produces healthy 
food, whilst healthy food nurtures healthy people. 
 
Therefore, combating climate change is intrinsic to protecting soil, our food and 
humankind.  
 
The United Nations study of 2021 reveals that about 2.3 billion or around 30 percent 
of the global population are moderately or severely food insecure, and 828 million people 
are affected by hunger. 
 
For that reason, every country needs to comprehensively address the pillars of food 
supply , food security, and climate change as part of sustainable development goals. 
 2 
 Mongolia, in its efforts towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals , is 
successfully implementing the "Food Supply and s ecurity ", "Healthy Mongolians" and "Billion 
Trees" national movements .  
 
For example, w e believe that the succ essful implementation of the "Billion Trees" 
national movement will not only provide opportunities to increase Mongolia’s forest cover 
and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse in the atmosphere , but will also positive ly affect 
a number of socio-economi c issues by improving soil protection , agricultural production, food 
supply and safety, and employment opportunities.  
 
I am pleased to underscore that the UN Secretary -General Antonio Guterres 
personally supported the movement during his visit to Mongolia. 
 
Availing myself of this opportunity, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to 
the countries, development partners , and international organizations collaborating on the 
"Billion Trees" national movement. It is my pleasure to announce th at Mongolia has become 
the first country in Asia to cooperate with the European Union within the framework of "Forest 
Partnership" program. 
 
Mongolia is one of the countries most affected by climate change. Although it emits 
only 0.1 percent of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions , its per capita and per GDP 
unit emissions are relati vely higher than the world average , 
 
In this regard, our country ha s set an ambitiously raised target to reduc e greenhouse 
gas emissions by 27.2 percent, which is a high indicator for Mongolia. 
 
The largest sources of Mongolia's greenhouse gas emissions are energy, agriculture 
and industrial sectors . 
 
Mongolia has a huge renewable energy resource estimated at 2,600 gigawatts thanks 
to its geographical location and climatic condition. This indicates that Mongolia has a 
potential to increase its renewable energy production, further contributing to the energy 
supply of the region. 
 
Currently , the portion of renewable energy reached 18.2 percent of Mongolia's total 
available installed energy capacity this share planned to be increased to 30 percent by 2030 . 
 
As present, 75 percent of herder households in Mongolia use renewable energy . We 
are actively cooperating with international organizations and countries in the region to 
increase an use of renewable energy sources , including quite new one like hydrogen 
 3 
 Furthermore, Mongolia has recently joined the "Global Methane Pledge", paying 
particular attention to methane emissions as parts of greenhouse gas emission reduction 
measures . 
 
Mongolia is endeavoring to achieve carbon neutrality around by the mid of th is century 
as enhancing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon sequestration, while 
strengthen ing its capacity on climate resilience . 
 
Climate change, coupled with the negative effects of human activities, is exacerbating 
biodiversity loss, land degradation and desertification. In this regard, it is my pleasure to 
inform you that Mongolia is preparing to host the 17th Conference of the Parties to the 
Convention to Combat Desertification in 2026. 
 
Bilateral and multilateral cooperation mechanisms of the three Rio Conventions, and 
in particular, the global carbon market regulated by Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, should 
be effectively used as instruments for climate change mitigation. 
Accordingly , developing countries will have more opportunities to spur innovation 
through technolog y transfer, and increase their access to green financing, successfully 
overcome the challenges and achieve their goals. 
From this honorable podium, I would like to rei terate Mongolia’s willingness to foster 
open, effective, and mutually beneficial cooperation with every country in the world , 
international organizations, and development partners. 
In conclusion, I am pleased to emphasize that our bold decisions , mutual 
understanding and collaboration, as well as our perseverance, are crucial to reaching our 
climate targets i n adequate timeframe and achieving sustainable development. 
Remembering that mother earth is our home and mother nature is a source of our 
existence, let us work together with common goal for the wellbeing of the present and future 
generations! 
 
I thank you for your attention. 
  