The statement of H.E. Mr. Tserenbat Namsrai,  Minister of the 
Environment and Tourism and Member of the Parliament of 
Mongolia 
 
 
Madam President, 
Your Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
First of all, on behalf of the Government of Mongolia, I would like to express great 
appreciation to the Governments of Chile and Spain for organizing and hosting COP25 
despite the unforeseen situation and the implausible short period of time. 
I do not ne ed to reiterate that clim ate change is not just a  regular ; challenge that 
the world is facing. Ever -increasing impact of natural disasters in respect of frequency 
and magnitude around the world, are apparent facts that the modern -day climate change 
is an urgency issue. 
The Government of Mongolia put much effort this year to develop its NDC by 
raising its previous target by 8.7%, thus committing to reduce our national greenhouse 
gas emission by 22.7%, compared to business as us ual scenario, by 2030. This 
undertaking can be further enhanced taking int o the account the possible sink -effect 
attributed to the land use, land -use change and forestry sector as well as accelerated 
cooperation among countries as collective effort of the international community based on 
improved and newly introduced incentive mechanisms to achieve the Paris Agreement 
goal. 
Concurrently, the Government of Mongolia has developed a long -term national 
development strategy up to 2050 incorporating all key spheres of social a nd economic 
structure. The identified NDC targets fully align with those of the lo ng-term strategy to 
foresee if Mongolia would succeed to reach carbon neutrality by the mid of the century. 
Nowadays, almost all measures regardless related to mitigation or adaptation are 
exceeding capacity of individual countries, especially the most vulnerable develo ping 
countries to global warming . Mongolia is actively engaging with the existing international 
cooperation activities on climate change, both multilateral and bilatera l. Constructively 
collaborating with the GCF, Adaptation Fund, GEF and some other international financial 
institutions such as ADB; and from the bilateral cooperation with countries like Germany, Japan, and others, we are having tangible outcomes i n addressing certain critical climate 
mitigation and adaptation issues. For instance, w ith Germany , Mongolia is improving 
forest management and national protected areas’ network as an important natural 
component for the removal of greenhouse gas from th e atmosphere. Under the Joint 
Crediting Mechanism scheme, we have succeeded to attract the private sector in the 
development of renewable energy, as a result of which targeted installed renewable 
energy share by 2020 is reaching its objective. In this rega rd, I would like to emphasize 
that some key articles of the Paris A greement as article 6 on market and non -market 
mechanisms should be operationalized as soon as possible to engage all possible players 
beyond government organizations and public institution s. 
In the arena of policy -support partnership , Mongolia is actively collaborating with 
the NDC Partnership and recently joined the Climate Ambition Alliance initiated by the 
COP25 Presidency. 
Last but not least, for the most developing countries an adaptation issue is critical 
and Mongolia is currently developing its National Adaptation Plan in cooperation with the 
UNEP under the GCF support. Within the frame of the elaboration of the adaptati on 
measures potential socio -economic and environmental co -benefits are considered as a 
high priority. The cost -effective implication of the nature -based so lution options are 
preferably supported. 
I would like to appeal to all Parties to decisively take co ncrete actions with a more 
ambitious climate target to keep our planet for generations to come and to ensure the 
safety of our co -habitants. 
Thank you Madam President. 