The statement by H.E.Mr Tseren bat Namsrai, 
Minister of Environment and Tourism of Mongolia 
Delivered by Mr.BATJARGAL Zamba, 
Special Envoy on Climate Change of Mongolia 
 
Mr. President, 
Your Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates,  
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
It is a great honour for me to address this Conference, which we see as 
a COP of progress toward  transition from Kyoto protocol to Paris 
Agreement in action. 
 
I take this opportunity to convey my sincere gratitude to the 
Government of th e  Fiji for very successful presidency of the COP23 and  
to the Government of Germany for excellent facilitation of conferences and 
meetings.  
 
 Mr. President, 
 
Mongolia is one of the cold country in the world with long lasing 
winters and short d ry summers. Some people in Mongolia said that may be  
the global warming should not be a big concern for us because  we might 
have more  mild  and  more pleasant climate. But  if we look back and see 
what  we had so far it was not the case . During the last more than 70 years 
period the average air temperature over the territory of Mongolia has been 
increased by  more than 2.0 degrees Celsius  and annual total precipitation 
was decreased by  more 7.0 per cent. It means  a wint ers could be  warmer 
than before but  with frequent cold  waves and summer could be prolonged 
but with dry spells with devastating impact on the economy and human 
life. Only this year the farmers in Mongolia lost  about half of the yield of  
wheat and vegetables due to shift of precipitation  for later period of the 
year. At the same time  infrastructure  experienced damage from  the late 
but more intensive rain and floods. Currently  early but heavy snowfall 
blocked the roads in some areas 
 As we can see the situation in my country demonstrated that no any 
positive impact can be expected from destabilization  of climate system 
like present global warming.  People in Mongolia understand that even if we  would ha ve a certain  advantage  from the climate change it shoul d not 
be any excuse  to neglect  the  anticipating  negative impact for those most 
vulnerable to climate change   countries like, for instance, SIDS for which 
almost no alternatives to adapt to new climate condition with increased sea 
level rise.  
Therefore Mongolia is developing its National Determined 
Contribution (NDC)  in close cooperation with  NDC Partnership  with 
number of activitie s  on adaptation  focusing on transformational  changes 
with co -benefits in respect of mitigation. More over we are planning to have 
more ambitious  GHG reduction target increasing the use of our renewable 
resources like solar and wind energy  sources .  In this respect we actively 
engaging in multilateral and bilateral cooperation mechanisms  like GCF, 
JCM, CDM , Adaptation Fund, South -South   cooperation  and others 
associated  with the convention on climate change. 
Mongolia was among the first group of countries, who ratified the 
Paris Agreement,  with hope that it will  promote to address most 
challenging  issues related to climate change. We believe that the new 
principles  and approaches reflected  and highlighted in Paris Agreement  in 
respect of inclusiveness, capacity building, technology transfer, finance and 
others  will allow us to be more close to reach the primary targets of the 
Convention, lessening the level of risk for humanities from the unprecedented 
suffer be cause of  possible non reversal climate change in global scale.  
Mongolia  is fully supporting the decisions  based on outcomes of 
discussions from the COP23. CMP 13, CMA 1-2 and APA 1-4  as well  
subsidiary  body meetings. 
 
Thank you Mr. Pre sident 
 
 
 