PRESIDENT OF MONTENEGRO MILO ĐUKANOVIĆ 
 
World Leaders Summit, UNFCCC Conference COP26 
1 November 2021, Glasgow, United Kingdom 
 
 
Your Exce llences, 
 
It is a great honour to address you all on behalf of Montenegro. 
 
This year’s COP26 , organized in the circumstances of the pandemic , is a great 
achievement . I would therefore first like to thank the host – the Government of the 
United Kingdom. This is yet another confirmation of the fact that , if we respect the 
rules and strict restrictio ns, if we are willing to sacrifice the comfort we are used to , 
and if we do it together with solidarity, we can achieve our goal. 
 
I believe it is the best path to ensure the most effective response to climate change . 
Through common responsibility, solidarity and coop eration – through multilateralism. 
 
International public has high expectations.  
 
 
Everything that we have done so far has not been sufficient to prevent in crease of 
emissions. Climate change and loss of biodiversity are existential threats. Devastating 
effects of the pandemic make the situation additionally complex. 
 
Warming of our planet is faster than we hoped , and it is only human hand that can 
make the move to slow th at process down . 
 
National responsibility and responsibility to global community lead us to do what we 
have to do and what we have already committed to achieve – save the Planet and 
ensure more secure, greener and more sustainable future. 
 
We confirmed our last year’s climate ambition: Montenegro submitted its updated 
nationally determined contribution to emission reduction of 35% by 2030. 
 
Still, we are here today to show our willingness to go beyond what we know we can : 
to confirm that w e are ready and that we have faith to go faster and to be more 
demanding for common benefit. 
 
Montenegro undertook to share the climate ambition and to be climate neutral 
together with the EU by 2050. Integration into EU is the strategic course of our 
country, and Montenegro will do everything to succeed. 
 
• By the end of 2021 we will update emission s inventory in line with the 
new methodology of the Inter -governmental Panel . 
• By the end of 2023 we will finalize the first draft of the National Energy 
and Climate Plan. • Early in 2024 we will complete the National Adaptation Plan. 
• We will intensify our wor k on the adoption of the Low -Carbon 
Development Strategy and join the group of states that actively plan and 
define policies and measures for reduction and mitigation of climate 
change. 
• With the next updat e of the national ly determined contribution, we wil l 
go a step fur ther. We believe that it will include additional reduction of 
5%, which will be the total of 40%. 
 
We want Montenegro to be a regional role model for successful green 
transition. 
 
We believe that it is possible to achieve climate change an d energy goals, 
development goals and European integration goals at the same time. 
 
I am here to express our clear determination and commitment . 
 
The political will that we are confirming here today has to be translated into a 
prompt climate action. This is the last opportunity to put things under control 
and we cannot afford to waste it. 