 
 
CLIMATE SUMMIT 
High Level segment (1-2 December) 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, 
 
I am truly honored to be part of this important dialogue, where leaders from around the world 
gather to discuss and strategize on th is important topic . 
 
Montenegro is actively pursuing climate change policy both nationally and internationally, as one of 
the 197 parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to whic h it has 
been a party since 2006. Even though our national greenhouse gas emissions account for only 
0.009% of global emissions, we remain strongly committed to managing our development potentials 
in a responsible and sustainable manner . 
 
Montenegro has ma de a number of steps to consolidate its institutional environmental framework. 
Efforts to intr oduce elements of sustainable policies into the national framework have been clearly 
evident in our country since the adoption of the Declaration on the ecological state of Montenegro 
in 1991, as well as its integration into our Constitution in 1992. With this work, Montenegro became 
the very first country constitutionally recognized as ecological , with the tas k to transcend this idea 
into all policies created at the national level.  
 
Therefore, it is perhaps even the right thing to say that we were international pioneers in the 
environmental protection initiatives. 
 
Through the vision and words from the Letter of the esteemed President -Designate for COP28 , I 
would like to emphasize Montenegro ’s progress in delivering th is comprehensive transformation : 
 
First – on Transforming climate finance by setting the framework for a new deal on finance 
 
Montenegro is the regional frontrunner when it comes to innovative mechanisms for funding 
sustainable development. By being the first country to establish SDG Acceleration Fund , we did not 
only create a n adequate financial mechanism, but a trully powerful vehicle to forge joint 
partnerships which represent a new generation of financing directed to speed up fulfillment of the 
SDG goals . 
 
The Fund makes Montenegro among the biggest SDG donor s tates in comparison to its size . The 
unique character o f the Fund is shown also through the institutional partnership with the private 
sector where the latter is included in financing for the SDG goals , thus leveraging on optimal use of 
the public money . 
 
And t ogether with the existing ECO Fund, t his platform provides a unique support to Montenegro 
to succeed on fulfilling its national commitments towards the 2030 SDG agenda and help accelerate 
the country ’s journey towards the European Union. 
 
 
 
 
 
Second – on Fast -tracking the energy transition and slashing emissions before 2030 
 
Montenegro has over the past years been undertaking bold actions to strengthen energy efficiency 
and optimize its energy mix . Large scale energy efficiency programs have been launched, particularly 
through major investments into the energy efficiency of the public buildings, with the support of 
the international financial organisations. 
 
Now, the aim is also to gradually reduce the use of fossil fuels in energy production and 
consumption, while at the same time pursuing socio -economi c measures aimed to minimize energy 
poverty risks. 
 
 
Also, the country has made a sizeable step forward with regards to the development of the 
renewable energy production facilities, some of which , especially the wind plants, have been 
supported by the bi ggest international companies present in this area. In order to develop this 
sector further a nd achieve the 50% share target of renewable sources in gross final consumption 
until 2030, Montenegro has been actively working on the improve ment of the legislation framework 
hoping to foster major investments in renewables and energy efficiency . 
 
Furthermore, Montenegro has boosted its commitment for the reduction of the greenhouse 
emissions. Thus, instead of the previously planned reduction by 35%, the country is now committed 
to reduc e total greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 in comparison to the levels of 1990. This 
is in accordance with the assumed obligation from our EU accession as per the Energy Community 
decision from December 2022. 
 
While achieving the climate neutrality goal, Montenegro is committed to fair and just transition. 
Therefore, our country started the process of developing a Just Transition Road map, which should 
be finalized by the end of this year and will encompass some strategic objectives such as re -skilling 
of the labour force , education and economic diversification . 
 
And as the just transition is about people, this leads me to a third goal which is: 
 
- Putting nature, people , lives and livelihoods at the heart of cli mate action 
 
Montenegro currently has 13.2% of protected land area, out of which 7.7% are national parks . In 
2021, our country declared the first marine protected area, which was followed by two more. Great 
efforts are being put in declaring new and enlarging existing special protected areas in our coastal 
region . Since 2016 , Montenegro has been continuously work ing on habitat and species mapping in 
order t o define the Natura 2000 network of protected areas . And b y the end of 2022, about 50% of 
the te rritory has been mapped. 
 
Although its constitutional designation expresses commitment to the environment, natural and 
cultural resources, it is fair to admit that Montenegro during the previous decades did not do 
enough to fully reflect that imag e. Inade quate space planning, waste and water waste management, 
are some of the major challenges. Thus the country is committed to a better compliance and good -
governance, as well as implementation of innovative solutions and investments in the area of 
environment al protection . 
 
 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
In the light of all the environmental, energy and economic crises the world has encountered and 
whose repetition is certain, we must not allow powerlessness to prevail. We should focus even more 
on long -term sustainable development . 
 
On this path, i t is crucially important to bring together all relevant social actors, because only in this 
way we can pursue our joint sustainable future . And w e must be aware that knowledge represents 
the best bridge for building partnerships. 
 
Bearing in mind that the link between sustainable development and knowledge is inseparable , 
Montenegro continue s to strengthen it by building on intellectual and academic capacities of our 
Universit ies through multidisciplin ary programs for sustainable development and through many 
other s platforms, like the Innovation Fund and the Science and Technology Park . 
 
Finally , in light of the growing need to preserve our resources, perhaps the best advice is to find 
inspiration and solutions in them. Returning to nature, with a wise disposal of what it selflessly gives 
us, is the only way ahead. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
Montenegro is committed to a better future which is green and sustainable. 
 
Thank you. 