Agony Ally a!) our UXge gle pdluully SdLually cad toatl

Mr. Chairman, my dear brother, Your Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al
Nahyane,

Distinguished Heads of State and Government,

Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations Organization,
Honorable Leaders of International and Regional Organizations,
Your Excellencies,

Ladies and gentlemen,

First of all, | should like to extend my heartfelt thanks to my brother, His Highness
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyane, and to the United Arab Emirates, for the
excellent organization of this high-level event, and for the commitment shown by the
Chair to ensure the success of COP 28.

Your Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,

The conclusions of the First Global Stocktake of the Paris Agreement attest to a
universal momentum around the climate issue. Nevertheless, adaptation efforts remain
fragmented, incremental and unevenly distributed across regions, particularly those
most vulnerable to the devastating effects of climate change.

Half-measures cannot be bold measures. Similarly, a partial vision only exacerbates
risks, adds to the damage and increases material, natural and human losses. Global
management of the climate crisis can only proceed from an approach that is better
suited to national constraints, that focuses on sustainable qualitative growth and that
is, above all, rooted in a humanist vision.

Just as climate change is inexorably accelerating, the Conferences of the Parties must
- starting here and now - move away from the logic of "small steps" which has
characterized COPs for far too long. | understand that such an empirical approach was
necessary when people had to be convinced of the relevance of climate action, not to
say the very existence of climate change. Today, however, this technical approach
complicates the terms of engagement and reduces the tackling of the climate
predicament to a circle of pundits, at a time when it should be a challenge that concerns
all mankind.

In other words, there is a gap between "small steps" on the one hand, and the looming
climate challenges that need to be addressed immediately, on the other. Just as we
need to believe in climate action, we also have to be convinced that between those

es oe a Coe Oe

eg ee! eee ee er ee A Oe a eee? Se ee

So

one that is rooted in pragmatism, of course, but also characterized by voluntarism,
ambition and vision. That is the plan we must embrace, if our goal is still to live up to
the commitments made at COP 21 in Paris, in 2015, and COP 22 in Marrakesh, in
2016.

However necessary they may be, climate negotiations are not - and must not become
- an end in themselves. There is a time for negotiation and a time for action. And the
time for action is now! | propose that we adopt a Pact for Action, here and now. Thanks
to this Pact for Action, humanity can show - through deeds - that the most ambitious
goals are not necessarily the least attainable ones.

Morocco's inherent conviction in this regard - as shown by a pioneering commitment
to climate action - is reflected in a number of strategic and political levers, including an
enhanced Nationally Determined Contribution in 2021. Our New Development Model
was designed with sustainability in mind. Similarly, our National Strategy for
Sustainable Development was devised and is being implemented with a view to
achieving a high inclusion rate.

In Morocco, the boom in renewable, sustainable energy, the development of
competitive green hydrogen sectors, our growing connectivity with global markets, and
the 2023 football World Cup, to be hosted by two continents, attest to the vision we
have of regional integration.

That is the action-oriented approach we have advocated at home, in the Kingdom of
Morocco. Our ambition manifests itself in concrete, precise sectoral actions. It is
expressed through detailed, verifiable Action Plans for adaptation, mitigation and
decarbonization.

Ambitious as they may be, our stated objectives are never just a whim or an
international publicity stunt. On the contrary, they are the result of programs and
projects carried out at national level, first and foremost for us, and by us. | personally
attach the greatest importance to their implementation and follow-up.

Your Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,

In a global system that remains inequitable, Africa received USD 30 billion in annual
climate financing flows in 2020, representing less than 12% of its needs. Penalized
and disadvantaged, Africa has, nonetheless, all the assets needed to become the
solution to the global climate issue - the answer to the major challenges of the 21st
century. The lack of active solidarity is considerably slowing down the momentum of
Africa’s climate action.

The IMF-World Bank Annual Meetings held in Marrakesh concluded that there was a

tlataralicm® and davoalanmant financringn than lavarc

nraceinn noaad tn reafarm mm,

=

we believe. It is that conviction which is motivating my country as President of the
United Nations Environment Assembly.

True to its commitment to Africa, Morocco is tirelessly pressing ahead with its efforts
to implement the decisions of the First Africa Action Summit, held on the sidelines of
COP 22, especially the operationalization of the three African Climate Commissions
for the Congo Basin, the Sahel and African Island States.

The Kingdom's effective involvement in innovative, rallying regional initiatives aimed at
better adaptation of African agriculture, strengthening sustainability, stability and
security on the Continent, and encouraging the climate leadership of young Africans,
reflect Morocco's multidimensional and unwavering support for the tireless efforts
African sister countries are making.

If solidarity and suitability are principles of international climate action, we must guard
against punishing success.

| am thinking, in particular, of the situation of middle-income countries, which are
leading the battle for socio-economic development as well as for sustainable
development. For these countries - including my own, the Kingdom of Morocco - | call
for specific, more sustained attention on the part of the international community.

This would only be fair. Indeed, it would only be fair that middle-income countries are
not penalized for the progress they make. We should not ask them to do more and at
the same time restrict their access to the resources required for development. Quite
the opposite, | think there can be no better climate "success stories" to champion and
reward than those of middle-income countries.

Your Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,

ng interests - with, at times, populist overtones - which favor short-term results
are eroding credible multilateral action and jeopardizing the future of upcoming
generations.

| reiterate the hope that the States Parties will be more ambitious, and that, together,
we will find collective solutions to this common challenge.

With that in mind, | would like to reaffirm Morocco's commitment to pursuing its
proactive action in order to remain at the forefront of not just advocacy, but also
solutions aimed at safeguarding the future of humanity on our planet.

Thank you.

