Mr President, 
Excellencies, 
Mr Secretary -General of the United Nations, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
First, allow me to express my heartfelt pleasure in giving the floor on behalf of the 
Kingdom of Morocco , and to congratulate the Republic of Fiji on its Presidency of the 
twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and, on behalf of the Kingdom of Morocco, wish it success 
in its mission. 
 
I would like also to thank the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Fiji for 
their good organization and for the warm reception of the delegations participating in this 
Conference. 
 
I should also like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude and appreciation for the 
efforts made by the Executive Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change throughout the preparatory period of this Conference and to ensure that 
the atmosphere for its success is well established. 
 
Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
The world has known , this year, extreme climatic events in a number of regions and 
countries, such as the recent hurricanes that devastated the Caribbe an and southern United 
States, the recent hurricane of Ireland and Scotland, fires in California, Portugal and Spain; 
and floods in Nigeria, India and Bangladesh. 
 
The devastating effects of these climatic phenomena call upon us, more than ever before, 
to take bold measures to build the capacity of resilience to this phenomenon and to its 
economic impact on our countries. 
 
 
The Kingdom of Morocco has joined the inter national community efforts to establish a 
global framework as foundation of sustainable development and to respond to the effects 
of climate change , on a voluntary basis , in order to enhance the course of combating climate 
change. 
 
In this context, Morocco is working hard to activate the Marrakesh Proclam ation f or 
Climate Action and Sustainable Development, which urged moving forward towards 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting adaptation efforts, cooperation and 
solidarity to red uce the gap between current emission paths and the necessary path to 
achieving the long -term climate goals of the Paris Agreement.  
 
On the sidelines of the COP22 , at the first African Action Summit on climate change, 
African Heads of State and Governments decided the establishment of three commi ssions 
of interest to island States, the Congo Basin and the Sahel ; and in keeping with the vision 
of His Majesty King Mohammed VI on environment and climate issues , the kingdom of 
Morocco have closely been activat ed in operationalizing these three commi ssions , in a 
context of South -South cooperation. 
 
 
Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
The Kingdom of Morocco is willingly but firmly committed to combating climate change, 
within an integrated, participatory and responsible methodology. This political will is 
reflected in raising the level of ambition from 32% to 42% in terms of the N ationa l 
Determined C ontribution. 
 
The National Determined Contribution is also anchored to the National Strategy for 
Sustainable Development, adopted recently in June 2017, which aims to establish a new 
development model where climate change is one of its key axis. 
 
 
Our firm conviction to face climate change impacts is also reflected in investing in 
adaptation and reducing the global greenhouse gas emission curve by 2020. Everyone 
knows that Nations can not protect themselves individually without meeting commi tments 
by the P arties to the Paris Agreement. 
 
In this regard, the Kingdom of Morocco is committed to supporting the efforts of all Parties 
under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol 
and the Paris Agreement. 
 
 
Mr Pr esident, 
Excellencies, 
Mr Secretary -General of the United Nations, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
In the framework of the Paris Agreement, we all agreed to raise the level of ambition to 
meet the goal of reducing the increase in average global temperatures by less than 2 degrees 
Celsius, while continuing efforts to contain this increase by only 1.5 deg rees Celsius. This 
consensus must be based on the effective implementation of nationally determined 
contributions.  
In this regard, the principles of equity, common but differentiated responsibility and 
capacities of each Party, and their linkage to means of implementation , such as capacity 
strengthening, technology transfer and financing, with a framework for transparency, 
should be borne in mind. 
 
The active role of non -governmental actors in contributing to international efforts to meet 
climate change challenges, through concrete initiatives and coalitions to achieve the goals 
of sustainable development has been demonstrated. 
 
It is worth noting here the active role that m any of the initiatives launched at the Marrakech 
Conference last year will play in the framework of the Climate Action Agenda , to facilitate 
the implementation of Parties commitments to the Paris Agreement, in particular those 
related to nationally determined contributions . 
 
Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
Despite efforts by deve loping and least developed countries to combat climate change, 
many challenges are still known as a result of the extension of extreme natural phenomena 
such as drought, floods, hurricanes and multiple natural disasters, and the lack of f inancial 
resources to be mobilized to meet the challenges. 
 
Issues related to financing, capacity building and technology transfer are among the most 
important concerns of our countries. In this context, developed countries are called upon 
to fulfill their commitments in this area by establishing a clear working program on the 
long-term funding provision , identifying its sources and ensuring its fair and transparent 
distribution between developing and least developed countries. 
 
And what we expect from this Conference is to recognize the need to increase the available 
resources to implement the nationally de termined contributions and National Adaptation 
Plans to ensure justice and balance between countries, taking into account vulnerability 
levels to climate change. 
 
 
Thank you. 
 