2 
 
 
 
 
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country Statement on Climate Change COP 22  
Delivered by H.E U Ohn Winn, Union Minister 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation 
 
at the Joint High -Level Segment 22nd session of the Conference of 
the Parties to UNFCCC (COP 22) and 12th session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving of the meeting of Parti es to the Kyoto Protocol 
(CMP 12 ) and the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement 
(CMA1) , on 7 to 18 November 2016, Marrakesch, Morrocco 
 
 
 
 
16-11-2016 
 
 
 
Country Statement by H.E. U Ohn Win n, Union Minister 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation of 
Myanmar 
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar 
At Higher Level Segment of the COP22 on 15-16thNov 2016 , Marrakesh , 
Morocc o 
 
President of COP 2 2/CMP 1 2/CMA1 , 
Honourable Ministers and Head s of Delegation , 
Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen, 
A Very Good Morning! 
 
1. At the outset, t he Myanmar delegation would like to express its 
deepest appreciation to the Government and people of Morocc o for 
your warm hospitality in beautiful Marrakesh . 
2. The evidence is clear that climate change is causing serious impacts 
today, requiring urgent and immediate action s by all. We are here in 
Marrakesh to begin implementing the Pa ris Agreement’s goal of 
keeping atmospheric warming below 1.5C elsius . 
 
3. Myanmar, especially in this historic time of reform, democratization 
and socio -economic development does support adoption of ambitious 
goals, targets , and commitments to guide a sustainable future . 
 
4. Last year and again this year, we suffered severe floods and 
landslides that caused loss and damag e to people and property. The 
2015 Global Climate Risk Index ranks Myanmar for the third 
 
consecutive year as the second most vulnerable country in the world 
to extreme weather events . 
 
5. Myanmar inten ds to contribut e to the global climate change 
mitigation effort, while adap ting at national and local level s to 
increase our climate resilience. We signed the Paris Agreement last 
April and are now in the process o f ratifying it . Likewise Myanmar 
has developed a National Climate Change Strategy that mainstream s 
climate change strategies in to sectoral and development agendas . 
Mr. President, Excellenc ies, Distinguished Delegates,  
6. To play our part in this global effort, Myanmar submitted its INDC 
last year before COP21. Its mitigation focus on forestry and energy 
helps maintain Myanmar’s carbon -sink status . We are now preparing 
our NDC by updating our INDC with more concrete , quantifiable 
data. 
 
7. Adaptation is most important to Myanmar . Building climate resilience 
remain s our absolute priority . Loss and damage is critically important 
to vulnerable countries like Myanmar , given extreme weather and 
slow -onset events. That is why we fully support Article 8 of the Paris 
Agreement and look forward to the adoption of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism’s 5 -year rolling work plan.  
 
 
 
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, 
 
8. As an LDC, Myanmar’s base of technical, human, and financial 
capacities is low . GEF and the LDC Fund are essential to our success. 
So too is the GCF and developed countries’ pledges of US$100 
billion from 2020 onward. Finance is a crucial element of 
implementing the Paris Agreement and so developing countries 
require a substantial scaling up from this 2020 floor . Simplified 
access and support for LDCs will be critical f or taking climate action. 
 
9. Pre-2020 means of implementation -- finance, technology transfe r and 
capacity building – are just as critical for mitigation and adaptation as 
post-2020 . We must ensure that the Doha Amendment comes i nto 
force as soon as possible . Myanmar will do its part and ratify the 
Doha Amendment in 2017.  
 
10. For Myanmar’s people and all the world’s citizens, we urge COP 22 
to generat e concrete action, implementation , and support. We stand 
ready to do our part to implement the Paris Agreement. 
 
Thank you . 