Mr. President,
Honourable Ministers and Heads of Delegation,
Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen,
A Very Good Evening!
1. First and foremost, the Myanmar delegation would like to express its deepest appreciation to the Government and people of Fiji and Germany for your warm hospitality in beautiful Bonn.
2. The evidence is clear that climate change is the most threatening global challenge, causing serious impacts today, requiring urgent and immediate action by all now. We are here in Bonn to begin implementing the Paris Agreement’s goal of keeping atmospheric temperature increase to 1.5C above the pre-industrial levels.
3. Last year and again this year, we suffered severe floods and landslides that caused loss and damage to people and property. The 2015 severe flooding in Myanmar caused billions of US dollar in property damage and hundreds of lives lost. Loss and damage is critically important to vulnerable countries like Myanmar, given extreme weather and slow-onset events. That is why we fully support Article 8 of the Paris Agreement and financial, technology and capacity building support is critically crucial to address loss and damage.
4. Since Myanmar is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to extreme weather events, according to the Global Climate Risk Index 2018, adaptation and building resilience remain the highest priority for Myanmar.
5. To play our part in this global effort as a Party to the Paris Agreement, Myanmar intends to contribute to the global mitigation effort, while adapting at national and local levels to increase our climate resilience. Our National Climate Change Policy mainstreams mitigation and adaptation strategies and action plans into sectoral and development agendas.
6. Myanmar’s NDC is ambitious, increasing the permanent forest estate. Our participation in the REDD+ program is critical to our mitigation and adaptation pledges. We urge increased support for the REDD+ program.
Mr. President,
7. As an LDC, Myanmar’s base of technical, human, and financial capacities is low. The GEF, LDC Fund and Adaptation Fund are essential to our success. GCF and developed countries’ pledges of US$100 billion annually from 2020 onward are imperative for stable long-term finance. Finance is a crucial element of implementing the Paris Agreement. Developing countries require a substantial scaling up from this 2020 floor. Simplified access to these funds and support for LDCs will be critical for taking climate action.
Mr. President,
8. We must ensure that the Doha Amendment comes into force as soon as possible. Myanmar ratified the Doha Amendment in September 2017. Implementation of pre-2020 action is critical as a foundation for post 2020 ambition.
9. In conclusion, for Myanmar’s people and all the world’s citizens, we urge COP23 to generate concrete action and implementation for pre 2020 and post 2020. We stand ready to do our part to implement the Paris Agreement.
Thank you.