
 His Excellency Dr. Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, 
President of the United Arab Emirates, 
His Excellency Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, President -
Designate of COP28 and Special Envoy for Climate 
Change of the United Arab Emirates 
Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Government 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Allow me to extend sincere gratitude to His 
Highness Dr. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al 
Maktoum, the Governmen t, and the people of the 
United Arab Emirates (UAE) for graciously hosting 
the 28th United Nations Conference of Parties. I 
wish to commend the visionary efforts of the UAE 
Government in championing sustainable 
development and environmental protection. 
 The sixth report of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change's identifies Namibia as one of the 
most vulnerable nations in Sub -Saharan Africa, with 
rising temperatures, increased evaporation, and 
rainfall va riability posing significant challenges. 
Therefore, for a drought -prone country like 
Namibia, climate change stands as a formidable 
obstacle to achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals 
 
The estimated cost for implementing our Nationally 
Determined Contributions is US$ 15 billion by 2030, 
with 90% of it contingent on financial support from 
the Multilateral Funding Windows under the 
UNFCCC. Namibia has established a world’s first 
blended finance infrastructure fund that is ready to 
receive c limate financing today to facilitate the 
necessary action we need . 
  Our National Adaptation Plan is enhanced by the 
announcement Namibia made t hree years ago, 
during the 75th General assembly, boldly signaling 
our intention to leverag e innovative financial tools 
to mobilize sustainable climate financing to combat 
climate change. One year later in Glasgow, Scotland, 
on the margins of COP26, we announced the 
development of large scale green hydrogen projects 
that would provide the world w ith the clean 
molecules needed to decarbonize hard to abate 
sectors. Today, as part of our efforts to build green 
industrial clusters in Namibia, we are developing 
more than 9 hydrogen projects . To do so 
successfully, we must deploy more than 20 billion 
US Dollars to give future generations a fighting 
chance against a warming planet . 
 
  Ladies and Gentlemen, 
As we enter the Inaugural Global Stock take, 
Namibia emphasizes that the process should help us 
to identify gaps in financial support needed and the 
support that was provided so far since the adoption 
of the P aris Agreement in 2015 to date. 
 
In conclusion, COP28 provides a platform for 
nations to strengthen partnerships, share 
knowledge, and collectively tackle the global 
challenges posed by climate ch ange. Solidarity , 
ambition, equity and cooperation are essential if we 
are serious about fixing climate finance and placing 
livelihoods at the heart of climate action . Let us 
seize this moment at COP28 to avert a climate 
catastrophe. Let us seize this moment by taking bold 
decisions that will protect our planet for generations 
to come. 
I thank you. 