Page 1 of 6 
 REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
 
 
  
STATEMENT 
BY 
HIS EXCELLENCY 
DR HAGE GEINGOB 
 PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
 
ON THE OCCASION 
 
HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE TWENTY -SIX CONFERENCE OF 
PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON 
CLIMATE CHANGE 
(COP 26) 
GLASGOW, UNITED KINGDOM 
 2 November 2021 
Page 2 of 6 
 H.E. Alok Sharma - President of COP 26 
Your Excellencies, Heads of State and Governments 
Distinguished delegates 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
Climate change and the worsening ecological crisis obey no 
sovereign boundaries. COP26 is the international 
community’s last chance to collectively overcome the 
disconnect between a divided international system and a 
global calamity that threaten s us all. Namibia is taking 
transformative steps towards honoring thi s responsibility. 
Along with the world , Namibia is experiencing widespread 
and devastating impacts on key facets of our civilization 
including severe droughts to devastating field fires 
destroying large tracts of our agricultural land adversely 
impacting , livelihoods, human health and wellbeing. 
For this COP negotiation s, there are critical objectives that 
are crucial to protect us all from the impacts from runaway 
climate change, breakdown of the biosphere and the death 
of the world’s oceans. It is hard to overstate the urgency and 
consequence of getting these right. Page 3 of 6 
 
Namibia is committed to the following objectives for COP26. 
1. We aim the conclusion and adop tion of a robust Article 6 
at COP26. This critical step would provide the bedrock of 
an international carbon market mechanism necessary to 
drive funds to the places where emissions can be cut most 
effectively, to mobilize large scale private investment for 
climate action and to drive crucial innovation. Article 6 
cannot wait for another COP. 
 
2. Namibia supports the UN Secretary’s General’s push to 
‘consign coal to history’. Namibia will support the phasing 
out of coal in our region by significantly scaling u p solar 
and wind energy to support domestic demand, whilst 
working with our neighbors to responsibly phase out 
existing coal generation in the Southern African Power 
Pool and transform our region’s energy map. This is the 
single most important step to keeping the Paris 
Agreement’s 1. 5C target alive. 
 
 Page 4 of 6 
 
3. In our support for scaling up climate finance, we call for 
the $100 billion target for climate finance needs to be 
surpassed as a target, with a clear roadmap on how the 
committed amounts will be deliver ed. We urge for an 
increase d volume of grants, rather than loans, to make it 
possible for emerging economies carrying high debt 
burdens to kickstart transformative projects. 
Namibia has amplified its 2015 pledge in the Nationally 
Determined Contributions, we now aspire to reduce our 
emission s by 91% before the end of this decade . The 
estimated investment required to achieve this target is 
approximately USD 5.3 billion, 10% of which is 
unconditional. 
These ambitions are matched by the highest levels of 
political commitment. The green and blue economy, 
including a green hydrogen industry, are cornerstones of the 
Second Harambee Prosperity Plan (HPP -II) launched in 
March this year. Green economy initiatives such as our 
Southern Corridor Development Initiative will drive a more 
sustainable, post -COVID recovery. Page 5 of 6 
 Tomorrow we will announce how Namibia is unlocking over 
5,700 square kilometers in our Karas region for the potential 
development of green hydrogen and ammonia assets , 
expected to double the region’s employment and triple the 
installed renewable energy generation capacity for the 
entire country. We are taking these bold steps to enhance 
our energy security , decarbonize our country , assist our 
regional and global peers to reduce their emissions and build 
a more resilient economy. 
The impacts of climate change continue to accelerate and 
deepen. In this context, we call on other countries to show 
the highest levels of ambition and commitment possible. 
In closing, Namibia urges all COP negotiators to finalize the 
Paris rulebook, take meaningful action in areas of consigning 
coal to history , lay the foundations of international carbon 
markets, and honor and exceed financial commitments 
made.  
 
 Page 6 of 6 
 I grew up praying for the serenity to accept the things I could 
not change, sought the courage to change the things in my 
control and the wisdom to know the difference between the 
two. 
Climate Change is something we can all change – let’s muster 
the courage! 
I thank you! 
 
 
 