Page | 1 
 Statement of Nepal for the High Level Segment of COP 
22/CMP 12 and CMA1 
16 November 2016, Marrakech, Morocco 
 
Honorable Jaya Dev Joshi , Minister for Population and 
Environment , Government of Nepal 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellences, 
Ladies and Gentlemen ! 
 
At the outset, a llow me to congratulat e you , Mr. President , on your 
assumption of the Presidency. I would like to take this opportunity to 
express our deep appreciation to the Government and people of 
Morocco for the hospitality offered to us. 
 
I would like to associate with the statement s made by the Kingdom of 
Thailand on behalf of G77 and China, and Democratic Republic of 
Congo on behalf of the Least Developed Countries. 
 
Since we have entered a new era in climate responsibilities from Paris 
Agreement last year, I am pleased to inform you that Nepal has 
ratified the Agreement. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Nepal experiences remarkable temperature rise and extreme climate 
variability de spite its negligible share in global green house gas 
emissions. Climate change has aggravated the poverty by posing 
additional threats to people and ecosystems . In the context of the 
country's political transition and ongoing federal restructuring 
process , we have made strong commitment and initiatives to addressing 
the accelerated threats of climate change. Policy instruments are in place, 
including Climate Change Policy and National Adaptation P rogramme of 
Action. Institutionally, Climate Change Council under the convenorship 
of the Prime Minister has been formed at highest level, while local actions 
are undertaken at grass root levels with the implementation of local 
adaptation plans.  Page | 2 
 
At present, Nepa l is formulating National Adaptation Plan (NAP) in 
line with national policies and strategies. The gove rnment prioritises 
accessing and managing climate finance, upscaling of renewable 
energy , building adaptive capacity and resilience and implementing 
mitigation actions to achieve sustainable development goals . To 
materialize the essence of Climate Change Policy, we are making 
every effort to channel more than 80 percent of the climate finance to 
local level with a dedicated climate change budget code . Nepal has 
recently started climate change impact survey to document the 
impacts of climate change and locally appropriate adaptation 
strategies. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Like many other parties, Nepal is worried about the slow progress in 
the full implementation of the Convention in spite of several decisions 
made during the last two decades. Commitments pledged on various 
agenda such as easy access to finance, technology transfer and 
capacity building have not been fully met in the spirit of the 
Convention and various decisions.  
 
On behalf of Nepalese people, I express solidarity with all the parties 
for effective implementation of the provisions of the Convention , 
Kyoto Protocol, and the Paris Agreement . I urge you all to support 
landlocked mount ainous countries like ours in order to enhanc e 
adaptive capacity and build climate -resilient future . 
 
At the end, I reiterate the importance of unified efforts among the 
parties to tackle the climate change and to implement the decisions 
and deliberations in the full spirit of the Convention . 
 
Thank you Mr. President ! 