Page | 1 
 
Statement of Nep al for the High Level Segment of COP 2 3/CMP 1 3 
and CMA 1.2 
6-17 November 2017, Bonn, Germany 
 
Mithila Chaudary , Honorable Minister for Population and Environment , Government of 
Nepal 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellences, 
Ladies and Gentlemen ! 
 
At the outset, a llow me to congratulat e you , Mr. President , on your assumption of the 
Presidency. I would like to take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to the 
Government and people of Fiji for the leadership and Germany for the hospitality offered 
to us. 
 
I would like to associate with the statement s made by Ecuador on behalf of G77 and China, 
and Ethiopia on behalf of the Least Developed Countries. 
 
Strong commitment has been clearly made by adopting the Paris Agreement to address 
climate change issues and impacts , individually and jointly by the parties . This is a great 
achievement in reflecting our strong desire in fulfilling our re sponsibility towards the global 
community. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Nepal emits negligible amount of global greenhouse gas es, but c limate change has been 
continuously posing additional threats to people and ecosystems in the country . Despite 
limited resources , we have made strong commitment and initiatives to addressing the 
accelerated threats of climate change. 
 
Like many other parties, Nepal is worried about the slow progress in the full materialization 
of the Convention in spite of several decisions made during the last two decades. As we 
only have about one year remaining to complete the work programme in finalizing the rule -
book of the Paris Agreement, progress on COP23 is crucial. 
 
We look forward for the successful outcome of the Facilitative Dialogue during 2018 that 
contributes in achieving the 1.5 degree celsius temperature target. Adequate means of 
implementation and its easy access is key to unlock climate action in developing countries, 
particularly LDCs.  
 
As we move ahead in implementing the Paris Agreement, our countries should not be 
burden with additional reporting requirements. In the recent years, we have been inspired 
with countries taking ambitious climate actions in promoting renewable energy, clean 
transportation and in building climate resilience . In this regards, we call for countries with Page | 2 
 higher emission to urgently contrive activities that helps to maintain temperature increase 
below 1.5 degree Celsius as guided by the Paris Agreement. 
 
On behalf of Nepalese people, I express solidarity with all the parties for effective 
implementation of the provisions of the Convention and the Paris Agreement . I urge you all 
to collaborate with countries like ours with rugged mountainous terra in on the one hand 
and limited techno logical resources on the other, in order to enhanc e adaptive capacity and 
build climate -resilient future . 
 
At the end, I reiterate the importance of unified efforts among the parties to tackle the 
climate change and to implement CoP decisions and deliberations in the full spirit of the 
Convention . 
 
Thank you Mr. President ! 