 1 Check against delivery 
Unofficial Translation from Nepali Text 
Statement by the President of Nepal Rt. Hon. Mrs. Bidya Devi Bhandari 
at the 24th Conference of Parties to 
The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
Katowice, Poland, 3December 2018 
 
Mr. Chairperson, 
Excellencies 
• Nepal is a least developed country, comprised of the Himalayas, 
mountains and the plains known as the Terai . 
• We have been bearing the brunt of disproportionate impacts of climate 
change despite being a low carbon -emitting country. 
• Himalayan glaciers are melting; snow -capped mountains are becoming 
dark and dull; the possibility of glacial lake outbursts is high; and the 
river - basin system is adversely affected. 
• Avalanches, floods and landslides, and droughts have become more 
erratic than ever before. 
• The rural drinking -water system has been disturbed because of the 
undesirable impacts on natural resources.  
• We are com pelled to spend significant amount of our national income in 
addressing disasters -induced problems. 
• Main productive land of Terai , ‘the granary’ of Nepal, is frequently 
affected by floods and inundation. Even more severe is the impact on 
agriculture sector. 
• Such disasters and incidences have more direct bearing on women and 
indigent people. We know the hardship of rural women, who are 
compelled to spend hours to fetch water for household consumption.  2 • We feel as if we have been penalized for the mistakes we never made. 
• I would like to reiterate that it is incumbent upon the international 
community to ensure that justice is done. 
• We believe that the commitment to maint ain the threshold of 1.5 degree 
Celsius as outlined in the recent IPCC Special Report will further 
encourage the world community to traverse resolutely in the path of low 
carbon emission. 
• We are a country that has been immensely contributing to controlling 
global warming. 
• Himalayan Ranges and high mountains including the Mt. Everest 
contribute to keeping air and water cool, refreshing and pure. 
• In fact, mountains and oceans form organic linkages to influence climate 
and weather patterns. 
• These mountains melt slowly yet continuously to rec harge and humidify 
the land. 
• This water recharging system has a prime importance in controlling the 
temperature of the earth. 
• Value of such natural phenomenon should be real ized by the high carbon 
emitting countries as well as the developed ones and ensu re that the 
environment of mountainous countries is not exacerbated. 
• We are ef fortful in minimizing the vulnerability of climate change 
through the design and implementation of model project s as well as 
through measures such as National and Local Adaptation and M itigation 
Plans of Action. 
• With a view to effectively implement the Paris Agreement, w e are 
planning to review the Policy and update Nationally Determined 
Contributions to make them more relevant in the present context. A long -
term strategy is being formulated for their implementation.  3 • We have already started the use of electric vehicles at the President's 
Office and we have a policy to extend this to other areas as well. 
• The Government of Nepal has initiated the Presiden t Chure 
Conservation Program with a view to implementing, in an integrated 
way, the environment conservation and livelihood programs in the Chure 
area, popularly known as Shiwalik in Nepal. We believe that this project 
will contribute to the protection and conservation of the environment of 
not only the Chure area but also the neighboring countries. 
• We are confident that the support and cooperation of the international 
community will be there in mobilizing knowledge, skills, technology and 
climate finance in our efforts to promoting study of Himalayan 
hydrological sciences, supporting sustainable mountain economy, 
pursuing economic and social development for shifting into renewable 
energy, employment generation, and ensure access of all Nepal is to 
clean energy.  
• We also believe that climate finance is critical also for developing e-
mobility , reducing vulnerability of women and the poor, improving 
public health, and promotion of for ests and natural system in the form of 
carbon sink. 
• Nepal remains committed to make the project implementation climate 
friendly and development efforts compatible with the Sustainable 
Development Goals. 
• It is our collective responsibility to protect our o wn and that of the future 
generations’ right to live in clean and safe natural environment. 
• Nepal is confident that CoP 24 will find pathways for the effective and 
faithful implementation of the Paris Accord. 
• Finally, I hope that this Conference will be a ble to make significant 
contributions to the global campaign of environment protection and 
conservation. I would like to extend my best wishes for the success of 
this Conference. 
I thank you all. 