Statement by the Hon. Mr. Shakti Bahadur Basnet, Minister of 
Forests and Environment (MoFE) , Nepal at the 25th Conference of 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (UNFCCC) 
Madrid, Spain, 
 December 2019 
 
Madame Chair, 
Fellow Ministers 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Namaste and Good Afternoon! 
 
First of all, I would like to congratulate to the Government of Chile and 
Government of Spain in hosting this event in the Magnificent City of 
Madrid, and warm hospitality ext ended to us by the people of Spain. I 
assure Madame CAROLINA SCHMIDT ZALDIVAR MINISTER OF 
THE ENVIRONMENT of my delegation’s full support and cooperation 
in discharging your responsibilities. 
Madam Chair 
Mr. Secretary -General - António Guterres - recently sounded a warning, 
calling global efforts to fight climate change "utterly inadequate,” and 
that "the point of no return is no longer over the horizon.'” The evidence 
is already stark and time to act is n ow. 
 
Lamentably, it appears that our Paris Agreement commitment to maintain 
global temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius seems untenable, as the 
carbon emission is constantly increasing, with a record of over 55 billion  
tons of GHGs in 2018. This pattern of carbon emissions growth threatens 
countries particularly least developing countries like Nepal. 
 
In South Asia alone, an estimated 240 million mountain dwellers and 1.6 
billion human souls, or 20% of the planet’s human population, directly 
depend on th e Fresh Water Towers of the Himalayas including Hindu -
Kush Himalaya region but these pristine resources are retreating at an 
alarming pace.  
 
This boom and bust water cycle poses great risk to already vulnerable 
downstream urban populations from imminent glacial lake outbursts, 
excessive landslides, inundation and a dramatic increase in flash floods in 
the high mountains & mid -hills. This region demands special attention 
and needs while considering to the livelihood of the most poor and 
vulnerable communities. 
 
Madame Chair, 
Nepal has made huge strive in implementing our climate change agenda 
with: our National Climate Change Policy to channel over 80% of climate 
financing to grassroots activities . We have initiated Vulnerability Risk 
Assessment, National Adaptation P lan and are completing our Disaster 
Preparedness & Response Plans for all Municipal areas. 
 
I urge parties to make significant progress on the Enhanced Transparency 
Framework , which is the backbone of a well -functioning Paris 
Agreement , based on its procedures and guidelines agreed last year in 
Katowice. We also need to advance on the 2017 Koronivia Joint Work Program on Agriculture; and we urge the parties to prompt financing of 
the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage beyond 
existing ODA grant -financing mechanisms.  
 
On mitigation, Nepal aims to achieve 80% electrification through 
renewable energy sources, with appropriate low -carbon energy mix by 
2050. Electricity needs to be decarbonized first. Government allocated 
approximately 40 million USD for e -mobility this yea r. We have also 
established several mitigation -friendly policies, including: a National 
REDD Strategy to optimize forest carbon benefits; and a National Rural 
and Renewable Energy Programme, which supports clustered micro -
hydro, solar, biogas and improved cook stove programming. 
 
Madam Chair 
Nepal is focused on socio -economic development agenda to sustain 
Nepal’s political gains under an overarching national aspirations of 
“Prosperous Nepal, Happy Nepali.” In this context, we are organising 
visit Nepal 2020. Therefore , we cordially invite you all devel opment 
partners to visit Nepal to take lifetime experience, with splendid natural 
and cultural heritage. 
 
In addition Nepal is organizing a biannual new initiative to bring the core 
of climate crisis at wider forum called Sagarmartha Sambaad or “ Mount 
Everest Dialogu e” with theme of “Climate Change, Mountains and the 
Future of Humanity ”, coming April 2nd to 4th. This global dialogue will 
help us seek transformational solutions under potentially catastrophic 
climate change scenarios. I cordially invite you all to participate in the 
event as well.  
 
 
Madam Chair, 
Nepal firmly believes that assurance of long -term finance from developed 
countries will significantly to increase ambition and enhance its 
implementation. It will also increase the obligations to boost Nepal’s cor e 
portfolio of national climate -resilient and low -carbon investments. This 
must be met through responsive and accessible financing, pragmatic 
technology transfer, and bottom -up capacity -building as priority. 
 
In conclusion, let us enrich of our soul and e nhance hope, not stay with 
dry soul and empty hope, 
Finally, Madam Chair, I wish your strong leadership and very successful 
tenureship ahead. 
 
Thank you! 
 
 
 