Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
In preparing for this Conference of the Parties, I asked the youth members 
of our delegation, future leaders from the Netherlands , what they expected 
me to bring home from Dubai . 
Their answer was clear . 
They expect us – today’s leaders – to deliver on the commitments already 
made , and to step up our eff orts on phasing out fossil fuel s. So we can get 
on track to reach our 1.5 degree target . 
I consider that to be our common task over the next two weeks . 
 
As you may know , the Kingdom of the Netherlands consists of a low -lying 
delta country in Europe and six islands in the Caribbean . 
So we know what it ’s like to be vulnerable to climate change. 
And how urgent it is that we take action. 
 
As the Global Stocktake shows , we need to step up our efforts on all pillars 
of the Paris Agreement: on mitigation, on adaptation and on climate 
finance . 
 
On climate finance, it’s crucial that all parties support the recommendations 
made by the Transitional Committee on Loss and Damage . 
All the warning lights are flashing red after yet another year of climate 
extremes. 
 So we need to set up a fund and help the most vulnerable countries. 
The Netherlands will provide 15 million euro to the startup costs of this 
Fund. 
 
On adaptation, it ’s imperative that we all agree , here in Dubai, on a specific 
goal. 
And a key part of every adaptation strategy must be far better management 
of flooding, drought and water pollution . 
 
And on mitigation, too, we urgently need to scale up our efforts. 
In my country , the 2030 goal of a 55 per cent reduction in emissions now 
seem s to be within reach , for the first time . 
I won’t deny that it’s a painstaking and costly process, but the good news 
is: it can be done. 
 
In the Netherlands , we’re committed to accelerat ing our efforts . 
We’re invest ing in large -scale renewable energy, with a special focus on 
green hydrogen both in the Netherlands and abroad. 
By 2030 , we want to provide 100 million people in Africa with access to 
clean energy. 
But millions of people need to become billions of people . 
So I urge all of you here to step up your efforts as well , in support of the 
proposed goal of tripling renewable energy by 2030 . 
 
Esteemed colleagues, the young people of the world are calling upon us. 
To deliver on our promises . 
To step up our ambitions. 
And to work together in embracing ou r collective responsibility. 
Let us work tirelessly to secure their future. 
 
Thank you . 
 