 
1 
 Speech by Prime Minister Mark Rutte, at the 26th UN Climate 
Change Conference (COP26) 
 
LEESVERSIE 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
This summer , in the south of the Netherlands , I stood on the bank of the 
Maas River, which was threatened by flooding caused by extreme 
rainfall.  
It was a terrifying sight . 
There, the dikes held. 
But elsewhere in the province and across the border in Belgium and 
Germany , raging torrents caused devastation . 
This is only one sad example that illustrates today’s reality. 
More and more people worldwide are being impacted by climate change. 
It’s serious , and it calls for serious action. 
 
First, we need further binding, global commitments and concrete 
measures to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees. 
For example, reducing harm ful emissions to net zero. 
Delivering a sustainable energy transition that offers new opportunities. 
And investin g in a circular economy. 
COP26 can and must make real progress on these points . 
 
 
 
 
2 
 But we have to face reality: climate change is already ha ving lasting 
effects. 
So climate resilience must be our motto, climate adaptation our common 
endeavour. 
The Kingdom of the Netherlands has been battling the elements for 
centuries. 
From North Sea floods to Caribbean storms . 
Adaptation is in our DNA. 
But due to climate change we’re facing a n unprecedented challenge . 
We’re working hard to address it. 
Both at home and at internationa l level . 
For example, by hosting the Climate Adaptation Summit earlier this year. 
And as co -host of the UN 2023 Water Decade Conference. 
 
Adaptation is the right thing to do, but it’s also the smart thing to do. 
Studies show that invest ing in adaptation and resilience works . 
Because c limate -proofing cities, farming and infrastructure protects 
livelihoods and ensures economic continuity. 
And i nnovative nature -based solutions and sustainable business models 
create new jobs and economic opportunities. 
Climate adaptation pays off – in so many ways.  
 
But for the most vulnerable communities, adaptation funds are often in 
short supply . 
That’s why we need to support each other. 
More than half our Kingdom’s public climate financing goes to 
adaptation. 
And it’s made up almost entirely of grant funding. 
We hope that more countries will follow suit.  
3 
 
Because climate mitigation and adaptation are two sides of the same 
coin. 
You can’t have one without the othe r. 
And w ith that principle as our guide we have to take action. 
Timely, firm and concerted action. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, you can count on the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands. 
And we are counting on you. 
 
Thank you. 
 