UNCLASSIFIED 
Office of Hon James Shaw 
Minister for Climate Change 	 Associate Minister of Finance 
Minister of Statistics 
National Statement from New Zealand 
23rd Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC, Bonn, 
November 2017 
Mr President, tena koe. 
(Mr President, greetings) 
E nga rangatira, tena koutou. 
(To the assembled leaders and dignitaries, greetings) 
Sir, 
A little over thirty years ago, a New Zealand Prime Minister, 
David Lange, declared that nuclear weapons were morally 
indefensible and that we would no longer play any part in the 
arms race that threatened to extinguish all life on earth. 
New Zealand declared ourselves to be a nuclear-free nation. 
Mr President, our new Government took office just 21 days 
days ago and our new Prime Minister, Jacinda Ardern, has 
already declared that climate change is the nuclear-free 
moment of our generation. 
IS +64 4 817 8725 	0 Private Bag 18041, Parliament Buildings, Wellington 6160, New Zealand 	M i.shaw@ministers.govt.nz 	M beehive.govt.nz UNCLASSIFIED 
Page 2 of 2 
New Zealand's emissions are less than one percent of the 
global total. 
But if you add up all the countries which each individually 
contribute one percent or less of global emissions, together we 
account for nearly a quarter of the total. 
If all the small emitters, like New Zealand, act faster, go 
further, then together we can make as much of a difference as 
any of the largest emitters in the world. 
Being small does not absolve us of responsibility. 
On the contrary, being a developed country confers greater 
responsibility. 
The Paris Agreement states that, if we are to have any hope of 
holding global warming to 1.5 degrees, then all Parties should 
aim to be carbon-neutral in the second half of this Century, and 
that developed countries should take the lead by undertaking 
economy-wide absolute emissions reduction targets. 
When we are at our best, New Zealand does take the lead. We 
were the first country where women won the right to vote. We 
were around the table at the formation of the United Nations. 
And we became a nuclear-free nation in the face of the Cold 
War's deadly logic. 
Mr President, our new government has committed to the goal 
of becoming a net zero emission economy by the year 2050 
and to join with the high ambition countries leading the 
worldwide fight against climate change. 
POLI-386-593 
UNCLASSIFIED UNCLASSIFIED 
Page 3 of 3 
Our commitment to this has to be total. As we here well know, 
most of the time politics is the art of compromise. It's about 
negotiation. You come to an arrangement. You meet each other 
half-way. 
But you can't negotiate with the climate itself. Ask the citizens 
of Houston if Hurricane Harvey would meet them half-way. 
Ask the people of Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, or Kiribati, or 
Tokelau, how compromising is the rising sea? 
In an important step for Tokelau, I can today confirm the 
extension of New Zealand's ratification of the UN Framework 
Convention and the Paris Agreement to Tokelau. 
And, I would like to warmly acknowledge the Government and 
the people of Fiji. 
Fiji's leadership has highlighted the Pacific region's vulnerability 
to climate change, and also the conviction of Small Island 
Developing States to lead the call for climate action. 
New Zealand is a Pacific country. We hear that call. If we want 
our closest neighbours in the Pacific to survive, we need to do 
everything in our power to hold global warming to 1.5 degrees. 
Climate change is a global problem and it requires a global 
solution. 
We are doing this together. Taking action on coal. Cooperating 
on agriculture. Providing climate finance. 
POLI-386-593 
UNCLASSIFIED UNCLASSIFIED 
Page 4 of 4 
The governments, civil society organisations, and the private 
sector represented here this week are proof that the 
momentum behind the Paris Agreement has not diminished. 
The Paris Work. Programme must make real progress over the 
next year in order to ensure the guidelines currently under 
development can be adopted this time next year. 
New Zealand is committed to playing a constructive role in 
these negotiations and seeing the technical details set out 
across all components of the work programme. 
The launch of the Talanoa Dialogue, here in Bonn, will create 
the foundations for all of us to collectively raise our ambition. 
New Zealand's challenge - and our opportunity - is to 
transform our economy so it works with the planet not against 
it, and to raise our people's living standards at the same time. 
We will establish an independent Climate Commission to set 
five-yearly carbon budgets and a Green Investment Fund to 
direct investment towards low-emissions industries. 
We will work alongside communities and working people for a 
just transition from carbon-intensive industries to clean, 
sustainable jobs. 
We aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity by 2035 and for 
the Government's own car fleet to be electric by 2025. 
We aim to plant one billion trees over the next 10 years. 
POLI-386-593 
UNCLASSIFIED UNCLASSIFIED 
Page 5 of 5 
And, we will continue to invest in research and technology that 
can reduce agricultural emissions while increasing productivity 
and profitability for farmers, because they too do not want their 
children to inherit a world with more floods and droughts and 
fires and storms. 
Sir, becoming a net-zero emissions economy by 2050 is not 
going to be easy. 
But as President John F Kennedy of the United States said 
about another difficult goal, we choose to do "these things, not 
because they are easy, but because they are hard, because 
that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our 
energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are 
willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one 
which we intend to win." 
New Zealand is a small part of the world, and we are a remote 
part of the world, but we are still a part of the world. 
It is in our interest to help save it. 
No reira, tena koutou, tena koutou, tena tatou katoa. 
POLI-386-593 
UNCLASSIFIED 