New Zealand’s National Statement to COP25 
Hon. James Shaw MP, Monday 9 December. 
 
 
Tēnā koutou, tēnā koutou, a tēnā ra tātou katoa. 
 
E ngā mana, e ngā reo, e ngā iwi, e rau rangatira mā. 
 
Tēnā koutou, tēnā koutou, tēnā koutou katoa. 
 
 
Part 1. International Rules -Based Order 
 
Señora Presidenta, Excellencies, Delegates; 
 
A common thread that runs through the Paris Ag reement is the 
commitment we have made to each other to do what we can to help 
solve the challenge of climate change.  
 
Progress towards that goal will not be achieved by a handful of countries 
like New Zealand stepping up to play its part. 
 
It will happen because of countless actions taken by governments, cities, 
towns and local communities around the world.  
 
Actions that, together, can add up to a stable climate for all of us.  
 
That is the international system at work. 
 
With the Paris Agreement soon to take effect, it is more important than 
ever that we agree system of cooperation and environmental integrity 
worthy of the promise laid out in Article 6.  
 
If we can put that in place, then there is a pathway for us to raise climate 
ambition and lower costs, whilst engaging the private sector and 
spreading finance, technology and expertise into new areas. 
 
Part 2. Standing with the Pacific 
 
Pacific nations are among those most at risk from climate change and 
among those with the least resources to adapt. 
 Rising sea levels, ocean acidification and catastrophic cyclones are just 
some of the consequences threatening Pacific peoples ’ livelihoods and 
ability to provide for their families. 
 
The Paris Agreement’s commitment to seek to limit global temperature 
increases to 1.5˚C is of utmost importance to all nations, but for many of 
our Pacific n eighbours its importance is existential. 
 
Like any family we have a responsibility to look out for one another.  
 
At least two thirds of New Zealand’s $300 million of climate related 
support between 2019 and 2022 will be provided to Pacific nations. 
 
And w e are p roud to welcome Tokelau as a valued part of our delegation 
here in Madrid. Ulu tonu mai.  
 
Part 3. New Zealand’s Climate Action 
 
Five weeks we passed through Parliament, unopposed, legislation 
committing ourselves – and all future governments – to significant 
domestic greenhouse gas emissions reductions.  
 
Our Zero Carbon Act enshrines the 1.5˚C temperature threshold into 
primary legislation.  
 
It establishes a system of emissions budgets that will act as stepping 
stones towards a long -term target of net -zero carbon emission s by 
2050.  
 
We have also introduced specific measures to drive down our climate 
damaging emissions – including reform o f our Emissions Trading 
Scheme; billions of dollars of investment in rail, buses, cycling and 
walking infrastructure; and the planting of one billion trees. 
 
Internationally, we continue to advocate for fossil fuel subsidies reform . 
 
And we have contrib uted $15 million over four years to the first 
replenishment of the Green Climate Fund.  
 
Conclusion 
 
We know that lasting action on climate change demands that we keep 
working every single day.  
For this is the only way we can keep our promise to you - that we will 
leave behind a world that is better off for what we did.  
 
No reira, tēnā koutou, tēnā koutou, tēnā tatou katoa. 
 