 
NICARAGUA'S MESSAGE AT THE COP 25 
 
December 11th 2019 
 
Dr. Paul Oquist Kelley Minister -Private Secretary for National Policies Presidency 
of the Republic of Nicaragua 
 
Madam President 
Your Excellencies, Ministers 
Special Guests 
 
The President of the Republic of Nicaragua, 
Comandante Daniel Ortega Saavedra, and Vice 
President Compañera Rosario Murillo 
Zambrana, send their greetings and best 
wishes for the success of this COP, aimed at 
achieving a higher level of commitment and 
climate action. 
 
Common but differentiated responsibilities 
and respective capacities are not political 
positions but objective historical and 
contemporary realities. To maintain that we are all historically responsible for 
climate change would be tantamount to saying that we all participated equally in 
the Industrial Revolution, as well as in the massive accumulation of capital 
resulting from it. This was when most of our countries suffered at that time the 
yoke of colonialism and neocolonialism, as well as the slave trade and th e 
exploitation of slave labo r, which also contributed to the historical accumulation 
of those responsible. 
 
To maintain that we are all equally and universally responsible for greenhouse gas 
emissions today, is equivalent to saying that the 100 countries with the lowest 
emissions that account for 3% of the total, have the same responsibility as the ten 
countries with the highest emissions that account for 72% of the total. At the same 
time, it is equivalent to saying that most countries with less than one ton of CO2 
equivalent per capita have the same responsib ility as countries with 18 tons or 16 
tons per capita. 
 
My country, Nicaragua, contributes 0.03% of total global emissions, with a per 
capita of 0.63 tons. Despite our negligible level of responsibil ity, we are 
actively workin g on mitigation and adaptation, as well as and loss and damage, 
because we love Mother Earth, and we are concerned about the future of our country 
and the world. Nicaragua has gone from 25% renewable energy in 2007 to 62% in 2018 , 
while electricity coverage has expanded from 54% of households in 2007 to 95% in 
2018. We are committed to the 30x30 initiative to restore 2.8 million hectares 
degraded due to a historic , active agricultural frontier. We have committed in the 
Forest Carb on Partnership to capture 11 million tons of CO2(e) over the next 5 
years. We are also adapting a dry corridor to the new reality of climate change. 
 
This effort has been in the context of average annual growth of 4.7% between 2011 
and 2017, the third hig hest rate among the countries of Latin America and the 
Caribbean, accompanied by great social advances . These include the reduction of the 
maternal mortality rate from 92.8 per hundred thousand in 2007 to 34.1 today, and 
the reduction of the infant mortali ty rate from 29 to 12 per thousand children 
born. Chro nic malnutrition in schools was reduced by 66%. General poverty was 
reduced from 47.9% to 24.9%, and extreme poverty from 17.3% to 6.9%. Very importa nt 
in this world, the GINI measure of inequality in consumption went from 0.41 to 
0.33. Nicaragua. In 2007, Nicaragua ranked at 90 in the Gender Gap Index of the 
World Economic Forum in Davos, rising to the rank of number five in 2019, only 
below Nordic countries. The indigenous and Afro -descendant populatio n of the 
Caribbean Coast and Upper Wanki River or Coco, received the del imitation and 
titling of 37,800 square kilometers of their ancestral lands, in 23 territories, 
each with its own territorial government and control of its own resources. 
 
However, Nic aragua, like 35 other countries around the world, has seen its capacity 
to respond to climate change and to achieve sustainable development goals 
undermined by coercive, unilateral, extraterritorial and illegal measures, which 
even criminalize third partie s that do not comply with the illegal measures. Only 
sanctions approved by the United Nations Security Council are legal in 
international law. The interna tional system of bank transfers is key to the de 
facto imposition of these illegal, unilateral , coercive measures that violate the 
human and legal rights of individuals, organizations and entire countries. There 
are also covert actions of destabilization of governments and attempts at coups 
d'état, some successful and others not. In the Middle East, severa l countries have 
been invaded or bombed in wars of aggression. The Nuremberg court ruled that this 
type of war is the supreme violation of international law and hum an rights, because 
it contains w ithin the sum of all the evils of the war. Even countries su ffering 
the consequences of climate change see their ability to respond to the future 
shattered by catastrophic disasters and the lack of international compensation 
mechanisms. All these phenomena have affected the respective response capacity of 
developin g countries. 
 
Our Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement are incomplete, because 
they do not include an effective mechanism to finance the response and recovery of 
losses and damages. Mitigation, reduces the risk of loss and damage, adaptati on reduces the impact of specific threats of loss and damage, loss and damage 
themselves, are the end result of the very climate change we are seeking to 
minimize. Thus, we propose that the concept of losses and damages be elevated to 
the same level as mit igation and adaptation, in order to receive resources. 
 
The President of Nicaragua, Com andante Daniel Ortega Saavedra, in his message to the 
United Nations General Assembly in 2015, stated that the only equitable and 
effective way to finance losses and dam ages is for the countries and corporations 
that have caused the problem and benefited from the use of carbon to accumulate 
capital to compensate countries that suffer the consequences of climate change 
without having caused it , in the proportion of their responsibility. We have the 
data from 1880 to date, both for countries and for corporations. Some people think 
this is a very radical proposal, but it is not. The concept that whoever causes 
damage to another must then compensate the other for the damage ca used is called 
tort in common law. It is also in the Napoleonic codes and in Sharia law. So too, 
all ethical systems, and all religions of the world, contain the concept. However, 
the term most despised and feared in these negotiations is the word "indemni ty". 
 
The year 2019 will be remembered like 1848, 1871, 1968 and 1989, as a year when the 
street became important in world politics. Climate change is one of the drivers of 
this phenomenon in many countries , with youth on the front line. The 16 -year-olds 
marching in the streets today will be 18 years old in two more years, and no o ne 
will speak of that youth as passive, disinterested and apolitical. A highly 
motivated voting youth can change the correlation of political forces in many 
countries, being decis ive in countries now evenly split between opposing forces. 
 
The developing countries need enormous financial resources for the future, to face 
mitigation, adaptation and losses and damages. In Copenhagen in 2009, funding of 
USD 100 billion per year starting in 2020 was proposed and reiterated in successive 
COPs. We should not accept as part of the US$100 billion accounts of past expenses, 
we cannot finance our projects with them. Nor can we accept that the market 
mechanisms of Article 6 of the Paris Agree ment replace the US$100 billion annually. 
We must not accept th e postponement of the date after having alread y waited 10 long 
years. What is needed from 2020 onwards are new, fresh, liquid resources with equal 
access for all developing countries. To guaran tee these requisites, if these funds 
appear, they should be channeled through the financial mechanisms of the 
Convention, namely the Green Climate Fund, the GEF, the Adaptation Fund, and the 
Least Developed Countries Fund. 
 
There is still a year before CO P26 in 2020 but you see neither a working group 
advancing the US$100 billion a year nor a road map. Only Secretary General Antonio 
Guterres has asked President Emanuel Macron of France and Prime Minister Andrew 
Holness of Jamaica to investigate the issue. If the US$100 billion annual commitment in 2020 is broken, this could be termed the 
Fraud of the Century. In reality, much more is needed and US$100 billion has to be 
just a starting point. The US$100 billion myth has the aggravating factor that it 
reduced climate change spending and action in the critical decade of 2010 to date, 
and now we are suffering the consequences . What we cannot do at this time is to 
have another Lost Decade of finance and a ction on Climate Change. 
 