 
Mr. President , 
On behalf of the President and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria , I 
congratu late you on your election as President of the 23rd Session of the 
Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change . I assure you of Nigeria’s full support as you lead the deliberations of 
the Conference . 
 
2. My delegation also expresses its profound appreciation to the Government 
and p eople of Germany for supporting Fiji to ho st this very important Conference 
in this magnificent city of Bonn. We also wish to commend the warm hospitality 
accorded the delegation of Nigeria and the excellent arrangement put in place to 
facilitate our work at this important Conference . 
 
Mr. President, 
3. Nigeria is witnessing the adverse effect of Climate Change in all its forms ; 
from rapid desertification in the north to humongous flooding in the middle -belt 
region , and coastal erosion in the south ern part of the country . This has 
tremendously affect ed the economic, social, political and e nvironmental aspects 
of our people with attendant threat s to sustainable livelihood , health, and food 
security among others. 
 
4. The Lake Chad Basin for example , which supports the livelihood of over 5 
million individuals has shrunk to about 10% of its original size . This situation has 
contributed immensely to insecurity and several communal clashes due to 
diminishing sources of livelihood of the inhabitants. I therefore reiterate the calls 
for international collaboration and partnership to resuscitat e the Basin . 
 
Mr. President, 
5. The Nigerian delegation arrived in Bonn with high hope and expectation of 
the o utcome of CO P23, especially on the development of guidelines on the 
implementation of the provisions of the Paris Agreement across wide range of 
issues , including those of adaptation, mitigation and the resources for their 
implementatio n. 
 
 6. We welcome the “Talanoa Dialogue” and seek your guidance and 
direction as we proceed in the spirit of collaboration and trust in line with the 
Paris Agreement . This will lead us collectively to a common ground for a 
successful 2018 facilitative dialogue . Nigeria also shares the same circumstance 
and views with African member states in terms of NDC implementation 
capacities. 
 
Mr. President,  
7. We are not in any way proposing to re -open the land mark Agreement but 
we support the call from the African member S tates that the best way to proceed 
is to show a demonstration of flexibil ity for African countries on climate change 
actions based o n the principles and provisions of the convention and to ensure 
that differentiation is clearly reflected . 
 
8. Let me also assure you that, Nigeria is firmly committed to seeing that 
current areas of contentions with respect to the financial mechanism, adaptation 
framework and institutional arrangements, technology transfer and capacity 
building are resolved to the benefit of all Parties. We n eed to urgently move to 
remove barriers that impede developing countries from effectively accessing 
global climate finance such as the Adaptation Fund, and the Green Climate 
Change Fund (GCF) amongst others . 
 
9. We call for a focused session that will make substantive progress through 
constructive discussions across all areas of the Paris Agreement work program in 
a balanced manner to enable us come up with a first-hand information on the 
implementation guidelines of the Paris Agreement well ahead of the 2018 
Session including a ccelerating the implementation of the pre -2020 commitments 
and actions and increasing the pre -2020 ambition in accordance with paragraphs 
3 and 4 of decision 1/CP.19” . 
Mr. President,  
10. Up-scaling funding to address the impacts of climate change on livelihoods 
and ecosystem s through an over -arching financial architecture to finance 
adaptation and mitigation measures is of high priority to Nigeria . This should 
include implementing the gender action plan under th e Lima Work Programme 
on Gender.   
 
11. To ensure the timely implementation of our NDC, Nigeria has developed a 
robust National Sectoral Action Plan across the five priority sectors; and has also 
embraced issuance of green bond , as an alternative source of funding green 
projects that would reduce emissions and provide robust climate infrastructure 
needed in Nigeria . This will also manifest in renewable energy, low carbon 
transport, water infrastructure and sustainable agriculture . Nigeria will launch the 
first “Sove reign Green Bonds” in Africa in the coming weeks. Similarly , we will 
continue to show a profound interest in contributing to effective global action on 
climate change. 
 
12. Finally, Mr. President , science has proved beyond reasonable doubt the 
certainty of climate change. So, we must stand united to ensure that the 
outcome of this Conference comprehensively address what we need to 
do as prescribed by the Paris Agreement to deal with fundamental 
challenges of climate change . We are prepared to work with all Parties , in 
the spirit of collaboration and cooperation with a view to achieving the outcome 
that will be universally agreeable and beneficial to mankind of all generation s. 
 
13. I thank you for your attention. 
“Au vakavinavinaka vei kemuni ” 