STATEMENT
BY
H.E MUHAMMADU BUHARI
PRESIDENT, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

AT THE

22N° SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO
THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON
CLIMATE CHANGE, THE TWELFTH SESSION OF THE
CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES SERVING AS THE MEETING
OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL AND THE
CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE CONVENTION
SERVING AS THE MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE PARIS
AGREEMENT

MARRAKECH, MOROCCO, 15 NOVEMBER 2016


Protocols.
Mr. President,

On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, \ congratulate your
Excellency on your election as the President of the 22" session
of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change and assure you of our full support
as you lead our deliberations.

2. May | also express profound appreciation to His Majesty,
King Mohammed the Sixth, the Government and people of
Morocco for the warm hospitality accorded us since our arrival in
this magnificent city of Marrakech and for the excellent
arrangements put in place to facilitate our work for this important
conference.

3. We have reflected our determination for green growth in my
country’s ambitious Intended Nationally Determined Contribution.
We have also announced our plans to reduce emissions by 20%
by the year 2030, with the intention of raising this target to 45%,
with the support of the international community. This is one of
Africa’s most ambitious Intended Nationally Determined
Contributions — covering all emissions from all parts of the
economy.

social, economic and environmental threats that climate change
poses to humanity. In Nigeria for example, the impact is being felt
by more than 2.1 million people displaced by devastating floods
that the country has continued to suffer since 2012. If not
addressed by 2050, the human and financial cost would be
colossal. For us in Nigeria, the larger dimension of the challenge
goes beyond emission rights. Survival rights are also at stake.

5. At the 71%t Session of the United Nations General Assembly
in New York, we were reminded, and we indeed agreed that
climate threats and security threats go hand-in-hand. We cannot
deal with one without dealing with the other. Both are global
problems that demand global solutions.

6. The Lake Chad Basin for example, has shrunk to a mere
10% of its original size, and this has seriously affected the
livelihood of over 5 million people and contributed in the growth of
insecurity in the region, including the emergence of Boko Haram
as a terrorist group. Hence the urgent need to resuscitate Lake
Chad. In this regard, | seize this opportunity to express gratitude
and appreciation to those who have responded to our call and to
encourage other well meaning partners to join in our efforts to
revive the Lake Chad Basin.

Wi. Fiweoree *

7. We welcome the entry into force of the Paris AQreet
4th November 2016 and hope that the implementation phase
would avail all of us a historic opportunity to re-orientate our
economies, to build inclusive, sustainable societies that respond
to climate change and support Sustainable Development Goals.

8. In Nigeria, we are launching 4 strategic plan for the
implementation of our Intended Nationally Determined
Contributions and we have equally embraced the issuance Of
green bonds as an innovative means and_ alternative way of
raising climate finance both locally and internationally. We cannot
afford to wait until 2020. We are already making far reaching
changes to all sectors of our economy including through:

O Substantially increasing the use of climate smart agriculture

oO Diversification of our energy mix through renewable and
efficient gas power

t Creating a more efficient, cleaner and lower-carbon oil and
gas sector especially through a gas to energy programme

C1 Initiated the implementation of the clean-up of the Ogoni-
Land in the Niger-Delta region

9. We believe that pursuing these programmes will not only
reduce emissions and improve climate resilience; but also
stimulate growth and economic opportunities in the private sector.
Our goal is to make Nigeria one of the world’s best examples of
how reducing emissions can benefit the environment and
economy.

10. However, we cannot do this alone. Addressing climate
change is a shared responsibility as its negative impacts are
universal. We, therefore, stand ready to engage in meaningful
partnerships to tackle the menace, and call on our neighbors and
developing partners to fulfill their financial obligations in support of
efforts to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change.

Mr. President,

41. The onus must now be on us as political leaders, to
recommit ourselves to the achievement of the goals outlined in
the Paris Agreement that we collectively signed in 2015 for the
benefit of this and future generations. Nigeria has submitted its
instrument of ratification for the new global agenda on climate
change. We urge others to do the same in order to make the
world a safe place.

12. | thank you.


