    On behalf of H.E President Muhammadu Buhari and the Nigerian 
delegation, I have the pleasure to congratulate you on your election as the 
President of COP25 and assure you of our full support as you lead our 
deliberations. Let me appreciate the dexterity with which you mana ged the 
relocation of COP 25 within so short a time . I also apprecia te the Government 
and people of Spain for the excellent facilities and warm hospitality extended 
to my delegation in this beautiful and historic city of Madrid. 
 
2. The political momentum generated by the recent UN Secretary General’ s 
Climate Action Summit in September at the margin of the 74 United Nations 
General Assembly; and the summit of the Head s of State and Governm ent 
convened by His Excellency , the President of the Government of Spain , at the 
start of this session provide s the appropriate context for engagement at this 
Conference. 
 
3. The outcome of this Conference must result in quick resolutions of all 
outstanding issues pertaining to the Paris Agreement Rulebook as carried over 
from COP24 to enable its operationaliz ation and strengthen ing global response 
to the threat of climate change to ensure a sustai nable future for our people 
and planet . 
 
4. Madam President, Nigeria faces grave social, economic and 
environmental threats consequent to climate change due to our country’s 
dependen ce on climate -sensitive resources. Climate change impacts are 
already threatening the survival and livelihoods of our people. The devastating 
loss of range and crop land s to desertification each year in the norther n part of 
the country , resource use conflicts, loss of forest cover and threatening sea -
level rise on the significant coastline in the southern part of the country are a 
stark reminder of our vulnerability to Climate Change. 
 
5. In this regard, the country is advancing policies and initiatives aimed at 
addressing significant challenges occasioned by climate change such as reviving 
the Lake Chad, increasing her forest cover, deploying smart renewable energy 
solutions, halting and reversing desertific ation and land degradation , flooding, 
 ocean surge ; gender mainstreaming as well as  engaging the youths in climate 
governance. We therefore, reiterate our unwavering commitment towards 
fulfilment of our country’s obligation under the Paris Agreement and 
actualization of goals of its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC). We 
acknowledge the support by our global partners and call for continued 
international partnership to reverse the negative effects of climate change. 
 
6. Nigeria has also embraced issuances of Green Bond to raise finance for 
implementation of green project , which has helped the Government to 
fundamentally reorient its financial flows, within the economy, through the 
greening of the Federal budget and capital market. It is h oped that the issuance 
of the third Sovereign Green Bond would triple Nigeria’s GHG emission 
reductions, stimulate more economic growth and catalyse investment in social 
programmes. 
 
7. The Government of Nigeria is proud to be one of the first and leading 
signatories of the new Intergovernmental Declaration on Children, Youth and 
Climate Action launched here at COP 25 on Monday. The Declaration is based 
on core priorities identified by children and youth themselves, and we believe 
that it is vital t hat their voices are heard and reflected in the ambition of the 
decisions that will be made here in Madrid and in climate -related processes 
more broadly. We encourage other governments to sign this progressive and 
positive outcome here in Madrid, and we lo ok forward to other governments 
here and through 2020 and beyond, to form a High Ambition Coalition for 
Children in order to greatly enhance the focus on children’s right to a healthy 
environment and their meaningful participation moving forward in Paris 
Agreement implementation. 
 
8. Madam President, as we round up this conference, Nigeria expe cts to 
see the conclusion of the review of the Warsaw International Mechanism for 
Loss and Damage; agreement on Article 6 on market mechanism; continued 
support and e nhanced financial provision by developed parties towards NDC 
enhancement processes and full implementation of the activities thereof to raise 
ambition and pursue a long -term climate agenda; goal of mobilizing $100 billion 
 by 2020; refining the technical as pects of the transparency framework; capacity 
building; adaptation; and decision on Gender Action Plans amongst others. 
 
9. Nigeria fully aligns itself with the call by the AGN that COP-25 
expeditiously, as a matter of priority, conclude negotiation on the special needs 
and circumstances of Africa ; and the call for the simplification of the guidelines 
for accessing funds under the Green Climate Fund (GCF) as well as the need 
for the GCF to remain accountable under the COP. 
 
10. In conclusion, it is obvious that the challenges of climate change are 
enormous, Nigeria calls for sustainable joint and collaborative efforts to tackle 
the problem. Nigeria is willing to continue to be part of the solution. 
 
11. I thank you for your attention.  