
Mr President, on behalf of the Nigeria Delegation, I congratulate you on your 
election as the President of the 27th Session of the Conference of Parties to the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and assure you of our 
full support as you lead our deliberations. 
 
At COP26, I did say that “For Nigeria, climate change is not about the perils of 
tomorrow but what is happening today.” Today, Nigeria is currently grappling 
with devasting effects of terrible flooding which has affected 3.2 million persons, 
over 600 lives lost, over 100,000 persons displaced and over 300 hectares of 
farmlands destroyed. Nigeria and indeed the rest of Africa, from the Sahara to the 
Cape, is living with increasing fear of food insecurity as a result of the floods. 
 
The economic cost for Loss and Damage for Africa is estimated at almost USD 2 
Trillion excluding non -economic losses. Developed nations must not ignore the 
demand from developing nations to establish a Loss and Damage finance facility 
to help deve loping nations recover from the adverse effects of climate change, 
particularly the devastating floods, worsening desertification, and rising sea 
levels. 
 
At COP26 in Glasgow, I announced Nigeria’s commitment to net-zero by 2060 on 
the basis of a detailed Energy Transition Plan (ETP). This plan, the first of its kind 
in Africa highlights the significant scale of resources required to attain both 
development and climate ambitions by 2060. However, the public finance urgently 
needed to fund energy transitions and climate action is lacking – a situation 
compounded by debt distress affecting many low - and middle -income countries. 
We are therefore taking bold steps to pioneer innovative climate finance 
instruments such as debt for climate swaps; and championing the development of 
the African carbon market initiative. In support of this, Nigeria has enacted the 
climate change law alongside the initial governance framework and launched the 
Nigeria Emission Trading Scheme (ETS). 
 
To signal investment readiness, we have made significant progress in creating the 
enabling policies and incentives to advance a shortlist of priority projects, 
including Renewable Solar Independent Power Plants (IPPs), scaled Decentralized 
Renewable Energy (DRE) projects and gas flare commercialization opportunities, 
to name a few. We are hopeful that investors at the global community will 
recognize the immense investment opportunities and potential for impact. 
 
Mr. President, as the largest economy in Africa, we are engaging the G7 to request 
the inclusion of Nigeria in the G7’s Climate Partnerships List for the co-creation of 
a Just Energy Transition Partnership. Nigeria and the rest of Africa, call for an 
effective and sustainable framework that will address the socio -economic effects 
of energy transition including energy poverty, loss of jobs and livelihoods. 
 
Africa contributes about 3 % to the global emissions but is left to cope with the 
devasting impacts of climate change. Nigeria has spearheaded initiatives aimed at 
recovering degraded land for the Sahara and the Sahel such as the Great Green 
Wall. There is a dire need to expand existing adaptation acceleration programmes 
for developing countries. 
 
I thank you all. 