 
Mr President , Excellencies, fellow small island developing states and especially 
Niue’s Pacific family, Fakaalofa Lahi Atu ke he higoa he Iki ha tautolu ko Iesu 
Keriso . 
 
I stand before you today, to amplify our voice to the many issue s that have been 
made on this podium over the last 10 days and many years afore. 
 
I stand on the shoulders of my ancestors, beating and echoing the drums for our 
survival, for our future and the generation s yet to come. The drumbeats are 
getting louder , with greater urgency for action .   
 
COP 27 is an implementation COP. Let’s make it happen. Let’s turn those 
drumbeats from our islands to be sounds of celebration, sounds of action and 
not sounds of despair.  
 
We call for t imely access to climate fin ance, delivered through modalities with 
the least amount of transaction cost, and commensurate with our absorptive 
capacity.  These are the sounds that we seek, and we look to you our partners 
to join us in our journey.  Let’s honour th e drumbeats by availing those climate 
funds promised to us; expedite their release so we can address loss and damage, 
and streams of program activities set out for execution, and work in unity to 
reach a common goal.  
 
 
 
Niue have done everything that we possibly can to access climate finance to help 
us mitigate and adapt. There are large disparities in accessing Climate finance. 
This is an unacceptable situation for Island Countries whose existence is under 
threat .  
 
Niue continues to take bold steps with our new innovative solution . We do this 
because we simply do not have the time to navigate the camel’s eye, to find the 
passcode, to unlock that illusive treasure chest.  
 
We have develo ped a home -grown innovative sol ution ; to raise funds for 
climate adaption and mitigation, using our blue ocean and through our 
commitments on ocean conservation and protection. This is a world -first, 
environment and non-financial instrument called Ocean Conservation Credit .  
 
Our objective is to establish a Niue and Ocean Wide Trust Fund, that can provide 
a consistent funding stream to help our climate mitigation and adaptation 
priorities. Th e funding mechanism is scalable and replicable. Our goal is to raise 
at least $32 million to capitalise our Trust Fund and making available $1.5 million 
annually for 20 years.  The $32 million is based on the aggregated costs of 
protecting and maintaining 1 square km of the Moana Mahu Marine Protected 
Area comprising 40% of Niue’s EEZ or 127, 000 square kms. 
 
 
 
 
 
As a Champion for Social Inclusion and Gender, I am reminded of the realities 
women and girls face every day – from experiencing domestic violence, bearing 
the burden of unpaid work, to barriers limiting their economic empowerment 
and participation in public life. And if this isn’t enough, they with other 
marginalized communities, have to deal with the disproportionate impacts of 
climate change. I urge all of us to include women, girls, children, youth, persons 
with disa bilities in all our decision -making and actions.  
 
Our Pacific Leaders have endorsed our 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific 
Continent, to guide our journey as a one, strong, secure, inclusive, resilient Blue 
Pacific. Ensuring a future that we can be proud of to leave behind for our 
grandchildren – the mokopuna of Moana . 
 
Let’s drown out the cries of despair and calm the beating hearts of fear from our 
kids and our vulnerable communities , assuring them that all will be ok.  
 
Let’s change the drumbeats to action , innovative and sounds of joy. It starts 
with us as world leaders . 
 
Kia Monuina! 
 