 
 
 
 
The 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference – COP28 UNFCCC 
Emirates of Dubai, United Arab Emirates 2 nd December 2023 
 
National Statement by 
 
Honourable Dalton Tagelagi, Premier of Niue 
 
 
Mr President, Excellencies , Distinguished guests and delegates 
 
A warm Fakaalofa Lahi Atu to you all from my government and people of Niue. We extend our gratitude 
to you Mr President and your dedicated team for the tremendous efforts in organizing this conference. 
We greatly appreciate the Emirates of Dubai, and its warm -hearted people.  
 
Mr President, let us stand in truth and in solidarity, as we portray the common issues on climate change 
across our islands, territories and continents. We will remain strong to fight and keep the 1.5 degrees 
to stay alive.  
 
It’s a defining moment for this COP28 to deliver what was promised to us , the $100 billion annually. 
Time is up and urgent action is needed now to deliver climate finance for Loss and Damage, Adaptation 
and Mitigation. Niue is a net sink and has no responsibility for the causes of climate change . Niue is at 
high risk to tropical cyclones this season and to drought. 
 
19 years ago, Niue experienced a category 5 deadly storm. My people are still living in fear of another 
catastrophic cyclone. Residents at low -lying coastal areas have slowly moved to higher ground to avoid 
detrimental impacts from damaging heavy swells. We are not quite adapt ed as yet, we need resources 
financials and tools to ensure early warning, disaster preparedness and climate resilience for Niue. We 
call to expedite now access and release of climate finance . The delivery mechanism must be flexible, 
and modalities reflect the vulnerability of our islands. We applaud those who have made pledges. 
Pledges must be materialized today not tomorrow. 
 
Niue has been brave and innovative as we have created our own sustainable financing mechanism. 
Our first Public Private Trust, the Niue Ocean Wide Trust, and a world first innovative financing 
instrument, called an Ocean Conservation Commitment (OCC).  This recognises the value of our ocean 
space under strict protection, as a global contribution to planet stability as well as a means to build 
resilience and a sustainable blue economy for our people.  
 
An OCC represents a partnership between us, and others willing to co -sponsor 1 square kilometer of 
ocean in our large scale marine protected area for a period of 20 years. This will help us mobilize 
sufficient predictable resources to invest in a sustainable way to achieve outcomes in climate action, 
biodiversity protection, SDGs, and security and at the same time will deliver invaluable climate 
outcomes for our region and the rest of the world.  This is an example of a non -market mechanism 
under article 6.8 which we invite others, in particular developed countries, to step up and support so we 
can actually secure the necessary climate finance we so desperately need and deliver this in a way that 
will make lasting gains for our people, region and world.   
Niue's contribution holds immense global significance in terms of supporting the long -term stability of 
our planet and its oceans. Without adequate mitigation, we will not be able to adapt. The Global 
Stocktake ensures our survival and our emissions pathways and targets for the future. Niue is sensitive 
to the issues on the Just Transition and Fossil Fuel Phase Out and that we must take caution to 
address these in reference to our small island states. We are not expecting an overnight changeover, 
but a commitment that considers special circumstances of small Island countries like Niue. 
 
Niue's National Strategic Plan is all about a sustainable future that meets economic and social needs 
while preserving the environment, social stability, and Niuean culture. We embrace the climate 
traditional knowledge practices that have also supported climate change adaptation.  
We need the support of all countries and individuals present here at COP28 Dubai to unite in solidarity 
with the people of Niue in our efforts to address the impacts of climate change and to safeguard a more 
stable future for Niue and the Pacific Blue Continent . Together, we can create a more profound 
understanding and foster collective action towards climate resilience.  
 
I wish His Highness and the people of the United Arab Emirates all the best today for their national day 
celebrations . 
 
Fakaue Lahi moe kia Monuina 
 
Thank you and God Bless All 
 
END 
 