Mr. President, Indigenous Peoples delegations, Excellencies, Ladies and 
Gentlemen. 
 
In one way the last year has been encouraging . Youth mobilisation for 
climate is loud and clear. Last week, 500.000 were demonstrating in the 
streets of Madrid.  
 
The young school strikers build on science. So must we. And science tells 
us two important stories: The world is getting warmer, the weather more 
extreme, and biodiversity is lost at a scale never seen before. 
 
But science also tells us that we still can change the course. But to do that 
we must act now. By reduc ing greenhouse gas emissions, restor ing nature 
and turning financial flows from brown to green. 
 
We must recognise that climate action is an opportunity for better and more 
inclusive growth. 
Through a green transition we can save money and resources, improve 
people's health and livelihoods , and build a better future.  
 
To help in this transition, we need to look to nature. 
We need more, not less nature. Tropical forests are where the climate, nature 
and biodiversity issues come to life. Protecting them is our best nature -based 
solution.  
 
Protecting our oceans is crucial . Better ocean and coastal management can 
build climate resilience, help food security, protect against flooding and 
extreme events, safeguard livelihoods and preserve natural carbon sinks.  
 
Many countries have pledged stronger climate targets under the Paris 
Agreement , including Norway . However, we are still waiting for some of 
the biggest emitters . 
 
We will not reach the 1.5 degrees target without these countries on board.  
 
Cooperation between countries can help us raise ambition. Article 6 is a tool 
to achieve more emission reductions and help us finance low-carbon 
solutions. We need a robust framework with high environmental integrity 
and no room for emission reductions to be used twice . 
 
We also need a robust transparency framework, and I regret that we could 
not make progress on this important matter here at the COP.  
 
Already millions of people are put at risk because of the changing climate. 
Adaptation efforts must therefore go hand in hand with mitigation measures.  
And nature -based solutions give the best examples of that. 
No one must be left behind on the road to a climate resilient and low-
emission society.  
 
 Thank you! 