 
 Pakistan Statement  
 delivered by Minister for Climate Change  
COP -22 Marrakech: 16 November 2016  
____________  
Bismillah -ar-Rahman -nir-Rahim!  
 Excellency Mr. Salaheddine Mezouar , Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, Kingdom of Morocco and 
President of COP -22 
 Honorable Heads of States and Governments  
 Honorable Ministers  
 Excellencies  
 Ladies and Gentlemen  
 
Assalaam -o-Alaikum , Good Morning and Bonjour ! 
 
     It is a great honor and privilege to be here today in 
the beautiful city of Marrakech on the 
historic occasion of  COP -22, CMP -12 and CMA -1. 
     
     I congratulate the Government and the people of 
Morocco for hosting two successful COPs. It is indeed 
a great achievement. I would also like to thank them for 
their kind hospitality.  
 
 2 
2 Excellencies , ladies and gentlemen: 
   
    Pakistan’s contribution to global warming is minimal. 
We emit less than 1% of total annual global greenhouse 
gas emissions. Yet we are ranked amongst the top ten 
countries most vulnerable to climate change.  
    
   Pakistan today faces several major risks relating to 
climate change, including glacial melt, variable 
monsoons, recurrent floods, sea intrusion , higher 
average temperatures and higher frequency of 
droughts. Millions of people have been affected and 
colossal damage has been caused by recurring natural 
disasters . 
     
    These threats pose major survival concerns for 
Pakistan, particularly in relation to the country’s water 
security, food security and energy security. They 
also have enormous adverse consequences for all 
socio -economic sectors, impeding our ability to promote 
sustainable growth and development and the economic 
prosperity of our people.   
 
 3 
3    To cope with these adverse impacts of climate 
change , Pakistan has developed comprehensive 
policies and plans that include both adaptation and 
mitigation measures.  
 
    We have adopted a perspective development plan 
called "Vision 2025" , a National Climate Change Policy 
along with a Framework for its implementation, and a 
National Disaster Risk Reduction Policy.  
 
    Next week we will be introducing in Parliament a 
historic Pakistan Climate Change Bill, which will 
establish a high -level, policy -making Pakistan Climate 
Change Council, alongwith the Pakistan Climate 
Change Authority, to prepare and supervise 
implementation of adaptation and mitigation projects in 
various sectors .  
      
   Pakistan has also developed a National Sustainable 
Development Strategy, and I a m proud to inform you 
that earlier this year Pakistan became perhaps the first 
country in the world whose National Assembly passed 
 
 4 
4 a unanimous Resolution adopting the SDGs Agenda as 
its own national development agenda.  
 
    Our Parliament is also the first Parliament in the 
world to become ‘’green’’ by converting to solar 
energy.  As part of our plans to promote renewable 
energy, we are constructing what will be, when 
completed, the world’s largest solar park of 1000 MW.   
 
    A law to promote effective conservation and efficient 
use of energy has also been enacted . 
    
    To reduce adverse impacts of climate change and 
build resilience, a Green Pakistan Programm e has bee n 
launched under directions of Prime Minister Mohammad 
Nawaz Sharif, with the objective, amongst others, to 
increase afforestation throughout the country. 
 
    The Government of Pakistan is fully committed to 
implementation of the Paris Agreement, which we have 
duly ratified. We have also forwarded to the UNFCCC 
Secretariat our INDCs , taking into account the 
latest situation relating to our development needs and 
 
 5 
5 strategies. It includes updated  projections of green -
house gas emissions and our national ambition 
to reduce these emissions, along with associated 
financial and technical implications. 
 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen:  
 
   We are confident that the comprehensive 
approach adopt ed by Pakistan will help us meet our 
climate objectives , build required resilience and 
contribute to the global mitigation efforts against climate 
change . 
 
    However I must emphasize that the availability of 
adequate resources is critical for effective climate 
actions in all our countries.  
 
   Challenges and needs of developing countries are 
enormous. In Pakistan alone, we need upto US$ 14 
billion annually to adapt to climate change impacts. Our 
mitigation needs, which have been estimated in our 
INDCs based on various assumptions, are much higher.  
  
 
 6 
6 Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:  
 
   The Paris Agreement has transformed our 
aspirations into reality and has provided an action plan 
to deal with the biggest development emergency of our 
times. We must therefore implement it fully and 
effectively.  
 
   For this purpose , the availabil ity of climate 
finance, technology develo pment and transfer and 
capacity -building in the developing world must be 
ensured.  
 
   All countries need to honour their respective 
commitments under the Paris Agreement and to work 
together to operationalize its implementation.  I am 
pleased to reiterate that Pakistan, on its par t, is ready to 
contribute fully to these collective efforts.  
 
Thank you.  
 
 