High -level segment national statement 
Plenary Al Ghafat - December 1, b/w 1400 -1800 
3-4-minute speech. 
480 words 
 
President Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, UNFCCC Executive 
Secretary Simon Stiell, Excellencies, Ladies and 
Gentlemen… Alii from Palau. 
Your Highness Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, we 
thank you for your generous hospitality and hosting this 
vital conference. Wi th the largest number of participants 
ever, we have a prime opportunity to unite, act, and get 
back on track to 1.5 degrees. 
Palau and our fellow SIDS contribute the least to global 
emissions, however, we suffer the most from the climate 
crisis, which is also an ocean crisis. 
Our ocean feeds us, protects us, and defines us. We must 
protect it in return. That’s why Palau and the Pacific 
family are committing — at this COP — to manage 100% 
of our ocean and protect at least 30%. This benefits not only us, b ut the entire world because a healthy ocean is a 
healthy planet. 
We have an ancient concept in Palau called ‘bul,’ which 
means to pause the harvesting so the ocean can heal and 
rejuvenate. In 2007, we declared a bul on the harvesting 
of bumphead parrot fi sh, it was difficult because they are 
a source of food and livelihoods. Thankfully, 16 years 
later, they have recovered. The fish spawn every month, 
creating a UNDERWATER FIREWORKS DISPLAY that is 
now a tourism attraction. Also a single fish produces 5.5 
tons of sand a year. The sand is critical to protecting 
coastal erosion. 
We need to respect the limits of nature and apply this 
concept globally. 
We are witnessing the consequences of ignoring these 
limits —floods, droughts, heat, famine, death. We need 
to mobilize at least $100 billion annually to support the 
most vulnerable. It also must be accessible! It cannot be 
more debt that is drowning us. 
Mr. President, climate change does not discriminate, and 
neither should we. The Republic of China — Taiwan has pushed to help 
address climate change mitigation and adaptation, 
inviting Pacific islands and like -minded countries to work 
together. Taiwan provides direct financing to work with 
communities to build sea walls, shelters, and 
infrastructure to move to hig her ground. 
They also have cultivated an environmentally -conscious 
culture, which has led to private sector partners, like 
O’right, using green energy to create eco -friendly 
products in environmentally friendly packaging. 
The solution to the climate cris is requires everyone’s 
participation, including the 23 million people of Taiwan 
and the thousands of businesses. Taiwan must be 
allowed to participate in UNFCCC processes and share 
their expertise.  
There’s a Palauan legend of the two -headed eel that 
grew with one head on either side of a rock. Unaware of 
the other, they would pull each other as they went after 
prey. They began to starve and finally realized they were 
connected and had to work together to survive and 
thrive. WE ARE SOVEREIGN COUNTRIES HOW EVER WE SHARE 
ONE PLANET.  
WE ARE STRONGER TOGETHER AND LIKE THE TWO 
HEADED EEL WE MUST UNITE, ACT and DELIVER to keep 
1.5 ALIVE! 
Mesulang. Shukran. Thank you. 
 