 
Today, I address you with a sense of urgency and determination. 
 
The Philippines is a living testament to the harsh realities of climate 
change. We have faced and continue to face the wrath of devastating 
typhoons, rising sea levels, and the perilous thr eats posed to our 
biodiversity and ecosystems, agriculture and livelihoods. These realities 
compel us to take bold and decisive actions, rooted in equity and our firm 
commitment to global rules -based order and multilateralism. 
 
The rule of law guarantees equity in the global commons. The Philippines 
is an archipelagic nation, with more sea than land in our territory, and the 
fourth longest coastline in the world. We are one of the 1 7 mega -
biodiverse countries in the world, containing two -thirds of this earth’s 
biodiversity and between 70 and 80 percent of the world’s animal and 
plant species. 
 
Our national footprint in the history of negotiations of the UN Convention 
on the Law of the Sea, the Convention on Biological Diversity, the 
UNFCCC and i ts Paris Agreement, as well the High Seas or BBNJ 
Agreement bears witness to our abiding interest in promoting equitable 
and just rules in the governance of the global commons. 
 
 Our commitment to multilateralism, strengthened international 
cooperation and global solidarity remains steadfast, recognizing that no 
single country can tackle the complexities of climate change alone. 
 
Here in Dubai, we continue to champion the cause of climate justice; 
upholding the principles of equity, common but differentiate d 
responsibilities; and ensuring urgent and responsive means of 
implementation, in terms of capacity building, tech transfer and financing 
to developing countries. We also seek to advance the values of our 
biodiversity and our oceans as the source of natur e-based solutions to our 
climate crisis and to serve as the foundation for inclusive and resilient 
development . 
 
In our own country , we have taken concrete actions by implementing 
policies and initiatives to reduce emissions by catalyzing investments in 
our rich sources of renewable energy, enhanc ing resilience, advancing 
right-skilling and social protection , especially for the most vulnerable, to 
achieve a just transi tion, and mainstream ing climate considerations into 
our development plans and budgets . We are right now in the final stages 
of completing our NAP and NDC Implementation Plan as our guides to a 
investing in secure and sustainable future . 
 
We have also actively engaged in advancing climat e action , disaster risk 
reduction and resilience -building efforts across the Asia -Pacific region 
and within ASEAN ;. 
 
At this juncture, I have the pleasure and honor to announce the offer of 
the Philippines to host the Board of the historic Loss and Damage Fund. 
We will also seek a seat in the inaugural Board of the Fund.  
 

Hosting the Board of the Loss and Damage Fund in the Philippines - a 
country that has experienced first -hand the ruthless force of nature’s wrath 
- would showcase global commitment to inclusivity, ensuring that the 
voices and experiences of the most affected countries are heard and 
considered in shaping the most urgent of global climate policies. 
 
We are already host to UN entities , international and regional 
organizations , providing us the institutional capacity, expertise and 
partnerships to ensure the successful hosting of the Board. And w e stand 
ready to offer our knowledge grounded in our long history and culture of 
human resilience .  
 
Excellencies , we must all seize this moment and move forward with 
courage, unity, and determination, towards a more resilient, equitable, 
sustainable, and prosperous global community. 
 
Let us set aside differences for the sake of our plane t and all peoples . It 
is truly only through collective action that we can secure a sustainable and 
resilient future for the generations to come. 
 
Maraming salamat. Thank you . 