FINAL 
 
 
THE PHILIPPINES NATIONAL STATEMENT FOR THE COP 26 MEETING 
 
Carlos G. Dominguez 
Secretary of Finance 
Chairman -Designate, Climate Change Commission 
November 9, 2021 
 
The Philippines is determined to be a world leader in this fight against climate change. 
 
We account only for three -tenths of one percent of total greenhouse gas emissions. 
Yet, we bear the brunt of the consequences of climate change. Our country is sinki ng 
at a rate four times faster than the global average. Annually, we are confronted with 
increasingly severe typhoons, floods, and droughts. Millions of lives are at stake. 
Clearly, climate change is very real to the Philippines. 
 
To challenge ourselves an d the rest of the world, we set the boldest national goal put 
forward by any country. Under President Rodrigo Duterte’s administration, the 
Philippines commits to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 75 percent in 2030.  
 
We are moving ahead with urgency to fulfill our ambitious target. We shifted from 
theorizing about climate change to executing practical climate adaptation and 
mitigation projects on the ground. We have put together a group of Filipino experts 
who represent all corners of the Philippines to engage our fishermen and farmers and 
prepare them to execute localized action plans. 
 
We just launched our Sustainable Finance Roadmap to deploy the engines of finance 
to get green projects moving across our archipelago. To urge the Filipino people to 
do their part on a daily basis in saving the world’s environment, we are pushing for a 
law banning single -use plastics. We launched a partnership with the Asian 
Development Bank for a landmark project that will accelerate our transition from coal 
to clean energy. This comes after President Duterte declared a moratorium on new 
coal plants a year ago. 
 
These are concrete actions to demonstrate to the world how a developing and 
climate -vulnerable country like the Philippines can lead in this fight to save our 
planet. This also shows that our commitments are not merely empty or half -baked 
promises, but are supported by actionable projects on the ground.  
 FINAL 
We have very high expectations for this COP 26 to become not just merely an annual 
platform for discussion but a catalyst for concrete action plans. 
 
It’s time that we do some actual work on the ground and build a framework for 
climate justice. Those who have polluted and continue to pollute the Earth's 
environment through unthinking industrialization starting 200 years ago must pay for 
the grants, investments, and subsidies needed for the most vulnerable countries to 
adapt to climate change. 
 
The time for debate is over. This is the time to finally begin acting on the fulfillment 
of our commitments and obligat ions to humanity. 
 
@@@ 