1 
 Przemówienie narodowe Prezydenta RP Pana ANDRZEJA DUDY 
podczas COP28  
Dubaj, 1 grudnia 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
I warmly congratulate the United Arab Emirates on hosting the 
28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change . I am pleased 
to able to speak, once again, in front of such a distinguished 
audience. 
Climate change is progressing at an alarming rate. It is 
a universal challenge. And this is the reason why the entire 
international community should face it in solidarity, in a 
reasonable manner and according to the principles of sustainable 
development. 
However, still too little attention is paid to the human dimension , 
which is the substance that gives meaning to the climate change 
response. I have said it repeatedly and will keep saying it – man 
and his needs have to be at the forefront of energy and emission 
transformation.  
It is human present and future, health, security and prosperity 
which should be placed at the center of every climate policy. This 
kind of modus operandi was worked out at COP24, and 
I encourage you to apply it consistently, in all pro -climate 
actions, in line with the Katowice Rulebook . 
Phasing out fossil f uels too quickly generates excessive burdens 
for societies. People cannot bear additio nal costs for energy 
transition. To make it just , it must not u ndermine their quality of 
life. Let`s bear it in mind when switching from fossil fuels to 
efficient low -carbon sources of energy . And let`s ensure that the 
proces s is reasonable and rational.  
The government of my country treats climate goals very 
seriously and successfully implements solutions which support 
our citizens in such areas as photovoltaics or heat re covery 
technology. We are also developing wind farms. In terms of 2 
 investments in wind energy, Poland ranked 3rd i n the European 
Union last year. Furthermore, we are taking resolute actions 
towards building a stable nuclear energy sec tor. It is necessary 
to provide Poland with energy security, which we need so much, 
and to move our country closer to climate neutrality. 
But c ountering climate change is more than just energy 
transition. It also includes nature conservation – something that 
should be more in our focus. Since global warming impacts not 
only humans, but also natural resources. For this reason, the 
mission of nature conservation should receive a strong boost to 
make it a truly international priority.  
Biodiversity plays a crucial role in mitigat ing climate change. 
Nature can help us, if we help it. However, it is necessary to 
consciously and sen sibly manage ecosystems, for instance 
through the effective use of ecological engineering, as we are 
successfully doing in my country. We are not only preserving but 
also multiplying the wealth of Polish natural resources. 
Ecosystems need care and active steps to strengthen their 
“climate” potential , with future generations in mind . Mindful of 
that, Poland is carrying out a number of ini tiatives to keep the 
stability of forests. We have implemented small-scale water 
retention and soil erosion prevention projects. We have 
pioneered the stimulation of the forest ecosystem to intensify 
natural processes resulting in greater carbon sequestration. For 
imitating nature in playing its role is necessary. This is something 
to keep in mind. 
In conclusion, I want to convey a clear message: let`s co -
operate, let's learn from each other's experiences, let's provide 
pro-climate solutions, kee ping in mind both ambitious goals and 
respecting the dignity and quality of life of all people. May these 
actions prove that just and green transition is by all means 
possible. Because the planet on whi ch we live is our common 
heritage that requires specia l care. 
Thank you ! 