                              CHECK AGAIN DELIVERY 
 
1 / 5 
Intervention by the Minister of Environment and Climate 
Action of Portugal 
25th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP25) 
Madrid, December 11, 10:00 -13:00 
 
Mrs. President , 
Distinguished colleagues, 
Ladies and gentlemen , 
 
I would like to congratulate the Chilean Presidency and the 
Government of Spain for their commitment with the organization of 
this Conference, which allow us to reaffirm the sense of urgency, 
commitment and cooperation needed in the global response to 
climate change. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
The further we delay climate action, the more intense the effects of 
climate change and the greater the costs of inaction. 
 
Portugal's commitment to combat ing climate change under the Paris 
Agreement is firm and determined. Therefore, we submitted, a year 
ahead of schedule, our Long Term Strategy for the Reduction of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions, which enshrines the objective of 
achieving carbon neutrality in Portugal by 2050. 
                              CHECK AGAIN DELIVERY 
 
2 / 5 
Our path is clear. Our Roadmap sets out the decarbonization  path to 
achieve emissions reduction of more than 85% in 2050 and 
compensation for other emissions through land and forest use. 
 
For that, we need more sustainable and resilient forests, which 
requires a new approach to the landscape, the recognition of 
ecosystem services and the adoption of natural -based solutions. 
Portugal is taking firm steps in this direction. 
 
Because the next decade is crucial, we have ambitiously redefined the 
2030 targets: reducing emissions by 55%, achieving 35% energy 
efficiency and reaching 47% renewables in final e nergy consumption. 
 
To reduce transport emissions by 40% we are focusing on electric 
mobility, high performance buses and we have significantly reduced 
the price of public transport. With this program, in just 6 months, we 
increased its use by 12% and the number of passes sold in both 
metropolitan areas by 35%. 
 
Currently 55% of electricity is of renewable origin and by 2030 we 
aspire to reach 80%, eliminating the use of coal by 2023, anticipating 
the date previously announced. 
 
Solar's latest boost allows us to consolidate the ambition to double 
renewable installed capacity by 2030. 
                              CHECK AGAIN DELIVERY 
 
3 / 5 
The world price record (€ 14.76 / Mwh) obtained at the first solar 
auction in Portugal shows that the energy transition is an opportunity 
to lower costs for households a nd to leverage the competitiveness of 
the economy. 
 
We embrace innovation and the creation of new opportunities it 
provides us. We look at the development of the hydrogen and 
renewable gas value chain with interest and we perceive here an 
alternative for the more energy intensive sectors to decarbonize. 
 
For us is clear . The choice is not between growth and environmental 
conservation . In Portugal, it will be precisely the scenario of greater 
economic development that will easily achieve carbon neutrality. 
 
Dear colleagues, 
We must be able to preserve the spirit of global cooperation and 
progressive ambition of the Paris Agreement. 
The rules must be solid pillars for the operationalization of the action 
and catalysts for ambition. We want to achieve a positive outcome on 
Article 6, which supports ambition and ensures full integrity on 
mitigation, otherwise we will undermine the credibility of the system 
and our multilateral process. 
These market mechanisms should create st rong incentives to reduce 
emissions now and in the future. To do this we have to ensure that 
no double counting of emission reductions occurs. 
And we have to make sure that the transition to the post -2020 period 
does not compromise the current and future a mbitions of the Paris 
Agreement.                               CHECK AGAIN DELIVERY 
 
4 / 5 
Next year will be crucial to the statement and consolidation of the 
Paris Agreement. 
Portugal is doing its part and wants to encourage all countries to set 
concrete targets and implement the necessary policies to reverse r ising 
emissions and reduce the costs and impacts of late action. 
 
 
Madam President of the Blue COP, 
Portugal shares Chile's view on the need to deepen the relationship 
between oceans and climate change. 
 
Increasing global climate ambition would be the best contribution of 
UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement to ocean health. 
 
In June 2020, Portugal and Kenya will co -host the United Nations 
Ocean Conference in Lisbon, which will provide an excellent 
opportunity to deepen this relationship. 
 
We invite all countries to participate and contribute with their 
experience on this discussion, which we feel is urgent and decisive. 
 
Mrs. President, Dear Colleagues , 
 
The calls for climate emergenc y result from the finding that climate 
change is not a problem of the future generations - they are a current 
problem!                               CHECK AGAIN DELIVERY 
 
5 / 5 
 
We must Act! In Portugal, we already feel its effects and that ’s why 
adaptation is a priority. 
 
Time's running out, it's almost too late. 
 
Portugal will do it! Portugal is doing is work and will not allow that 
others to fail! 
 
Count on Portugal to fight the climate crisis! 
Thank you very much. 
 
 