President of COP26, Alok Sharma, 
Dear Minister and colleagues 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Let me start by thanking the Government of the United Kingdom 
for the organization of th e COP26 and for all the work done in the 
difficult circumstances we have all been facing since our last COP 
in Madrid. 
There is only one acceptable outcome for COP26: one that 
commits all Parties to a higher level of climate action and 
ambition ; onethat delivers the complete rulebook for the full 
implementation of the Paris Agreement . 
Science needs to be heard and integra ted into planning and 
decision -making processes at national, regional and local level.  
 
 
And for that , National Determined Contributions (NDC) and Long 
Term Strategies (LTS) should reflect the urgency of delivering the 
1,5ºC goal including through ambitious short term action and 
through net -zero commitments by mid -century. 
Portugal was the first country in the world to commit to climate 
neutrality by 2050. 
The European Union did so when it made the goal to be climate 
neutral by 2050 and achieve negative emissions thereafter , 
through its Climate Law , which approved in the Portuguese 
Presidency of the Council of the European Union. 
Leadership lies with those who have phased -out coal; who put a 
price on carbon; who declined invest ments in fossil fuels; who 
invested in renewable energy ; and in creating climate resilient, 
biodiverse territor ies, with the capacity to enhance carbon sinks , 
through natural -based solutions. 
From this month onwards, Portugal will end coal power 
generation . 
In 2020 , we reduce our emissions by 32%, in relation to 2005, 
and more than 60% of our power generation was based on 
renewables . We will continue t o invest in renewables, especially 
in solar energy. T hese investments are now being complemented 
with projects based on green hydrogen.  
  
 
In Paris we were looking at commitments that would put us 
collectively at 3.1°C . Recent reports were pointing still to 2.7°C. 
This is not enough. And not fast enough. The most recent IPCC 
report clearly shows that. 
We all must be aware that t he longer we delay cli mate action, the 
more intense its effects will be and the greater the costs of 
inaction. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Finalising the Katowice rulebook is key to ensure the Paris 
Agreement's full operative and move forward . 
I hope that consensus can be reached on common time frame s 
of 5-years for the NDCs of all Parties since it´s the most effective 
way to synchronize the national commitments of the Parties with 
the Paris cycle of Ambition . 
On Article 6, we need a result that allows actions , including 
voluntary carbon market actions that ensure integrity and 
environmental ambition and are consistent with the necessary 
increase in global ambition.  
 
It is crucial to complete the Framework for Enhanced 
Transparency , ensur ing that all Parties can report on progress 
in a comparable, quantified and transparent manner. 
Climate finance is key and our priority should be to focus on 
delivering the current goal. We need to continue work on 
broadening the donor base, mobilising the p rivate sector, and to 
achieve a better balance between mitigation and adaptation, in 
line with the priorities of the receiving countries. 
Portugal is committed to continue financ ing climate action , in 
particular through the Portuguese Environmental Fund , in 
partner countries, such as Portuguese Speaking African 
Countries . 
As a sign of our commitment we pledge to double climate 
finance , allocating a total of 35 million euros by 2030. 
COP 26 must deliver a strong message on carbon pricing , on 
phasing out of fossil fuel subsidies , and the relevance of 
aligning public and private financial flows with the objectives of 
the Paris Agreement, as part of a green recovery . 
Dear Colleagues, 
We know we will not be able to avoid all impac ts of climate 
change, some of which we are already facing .  
 

We are working on a National Roadmap for Adaptation , which 
aims to update Portugal’s climate change vulnerability 
assessment and define further adaptation action in Portugal for 
the 21st century. 
And we have submitted our national Adaptation 
Communication outlining our current work on adaptation . 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Six years have passed since the approval of the Paris Agreement 
and the evidence of climate change is now clearer than ever . 
Leadership must be shown inside these rooms, led by the 
democracies of the world, with the support of the multilateral 
process . That is the only way to ensure climate justice. 
In order not to fail on that leadership we, collectively, need to 
deliver on the goals that science shows us to be required to tackle 
climate change. 
Not to fail, we should listen to the younger generations and make 
sure we grant them a healthy planet and a hopeful future. 
We are here, we are listening, and we know we must deliver.  
And we will not give up this responsibility . 