Address by H.E. Dr. Cho, Myung Rae
Minister of Environment of the Republic of Korea
To the High-level Segment of the 24th Conference of the Parties UNFCCC
Honorable Chair, 
Your Excellency, Ms. Patricia Espinosa,
Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me begin by congratulating the adoption of the Ministerial 
Declaration on Fair Transition at the Katowice Summit last week. I 
believe the declaration signed by numerous leaders and Parties under 
Poland’s leadership will help us mobilize political support we need just 
in time. 
Excellencies,
Just over two months ago, 195 member countries of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change gathered in Incheon, Korea, 
and adopted the Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 degrees 
Celsius as an important input to this Conference of the Parties in 
Katowice. This report, prepared by thousands of experts worldwide using 
more than 6,000 scientific references, gives two clear messages - 
Limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius is still within reach, but it 
would require an unprecedented and urgent changes in the way we live.
This is a daunting task. We have been calling for a rapid transition to 
low-carbon economy for decades. Although some notable progress has 
been made, we are far from where we need to be. Yet I believe, the 
Paris Agreement can make that transition happen.
For this reason, Mr. Chair, the twenty fourth Conference of the Parties is 
so crucial. 
First, we have been given the mandate to deliver the ‘rulebook’ of the 
Paris Agreement through this COP. How we make the rulebook might 
be, perhaps, more important than the Paris Agreement itself. As we all 
realize, the devil is always in the detail. Ambiguity leads to loopholes 
while predictability leads to innovation. Let me share with you an example of Korea. It took more than 5 years 
to develop the rules for our Emissions Trading Scheme that covers 
two-thirds of the total greenhouse gas emissions in Korea. However, our 
ETS has benefitted from clear rules, convincing companies to invest in 
low-carbon technologies and innovation. 
Second, in this COP, we undertake the political phase of ‘Talanoa 
Dialogue’ to assess where we are, where we want to go and most 
importantly, how we get there. Periodic reviews of implementation are 
crucial in any policies and this is a key element in the ambition 
mechanism of the Paris Agreement. We need to ensure that the 
discussion here at 
COP24 leads to higher ambition and enhanced actions globally. 
As soon as President Moon Jae-In took office in May 2017, he made it 
clear to include the review of our national emission reduction roadmap 
as one of the national priorities to achieve NDC. After a long review 
with greater civil society participation, Korea just recently adopted a new 
revised roadmap that ensures a better strategy to reach our emissions 
target while adhering to the ‘no backsliding’ principle, and greater share 
of responsibility for our domestic actors. Taking into consideration that 
Korea has one of the highest carbon prices in the world at 22 dollars 
per ton of CO2,we believe this is a notable commitment.
Mr. Chair, 
Along with our mitigation action, Korean government is also focusing its 
policy efforts to build adaptive capacity of the vulnerable. Often, as they 
are most affected by climate change, taking preventive measures is 
important to build their climate resilience. I am personally honored, in 
this respect, to announce that Korea will host the 6th Global National 
Adaptation Plan Expo in April next year in Incheon where we hosted 
this year’s session of the IPCC.
Going even beyond its national border, Korea is reaching out to 
developing countries to provide support they need in their adaptation 
planning as well. Based on its experience of hosting the secretariats of 
both Global Green Growth Institute and Green Climate Fund, Korea is 
continuously scaling up its support for developing countries. Excellencies,
Climate action is not an agenda for distant future. It is today’s agenda 
closely linked to human survival. The agenda is so pressing and urgent 
that it requires immediate global action.
The Republic of Korea fully understands the importance of this 
Conference of the Parties in that global action, and we express our 
commitment to constructively contribute to the discussion here in 
Katowice.
Thank you.