Address by H.E. Dr. Cho, Myung Rae
Minister of Environment of the Republic of Korea
To the High-level Segment of the 25th Conference of the Parties UNFCCC
Madam President, 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Last year in Poland, we finally saw the adoption of the Katowice 
Climate Package. It was just 3 years after the Paris Agreement, the great 
promise made to stop a catastrophic climate crisis. This package, the 
robust implementation guidance, gives us one clear message: that we 
must now act. 
And we must act now, meaning, the next 10 years should be a decade 
of bold action and a decade of the great transformation. It requires the 
most extensive, cross-cutting change in our way of life. 
In fact, this transformative change has been signaled strongly by world 
leaders in New York last September. President Moon Jae-in joined them 
in making pledges of Korea’s commitments towards a low-carbon future. 
He also promised to double the nation’s contribution to Green Climate 
Fund to accelerate the pace of global climate action. 
Excellencies,
Moving towards a low-carbon economy is a challenging task. It is 
challenging because we have to depart from our old habits. In this 
low-carbon path we are about to take, high-carbon options do not simply 
make sense. To discourage business as usual, we need the right system 
that puts a reasonable price on carbon. 
The price of traded carbon in Korea has reached more than 30 US 
dollars, the highest level among other countries. Although such high carbon price poses challenges across sectors, Korea will submit a new 
NDC reflecting its highest possible ambition by next year to faithfully 
implement the Paris Agreement. We have also ambitiously launched an 
inclusive process to develop a 2050 Long-term low Emission 
Development Strategy. Diverse stakeholders at all levels are participating 
to make their voices heard.
Excellencies,
I believe the most critical deliverable from COP25, among others, is the 
adoption of the guidance for Article 6. For Korea, it is crucial to have 
this guidance completed because carbon market is an important enabler 
for us to boost our climate ambition. I do hope that we all will put 
aside their differences and find solutions for carbon markets that retain 
environmental integrity.
Next year, the year 2020, sets an important milestone because all Parties 
are asked to raise their ambitions and submit updated NDCs. In June 
next year, Korea will host the Partnering for Green Growth and the 
Global Goals 2030, or P4G Summit with the aim of promoting 
public-private partnerships at scale, which is essential in implementing 
both the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals. 
The P4G emphasizes innovative partnerships to advance solutions that 
will help us meet humanity’s greatest challenges. The benefits of this 
initiative could be endless: more jobs, equity and social justice, green 
innovations and most importantly, inclusive growth that leaves no one 
behind. Indeed the values of inclusive growth should thrive in all 
countries’ low-carbon trajectory. 
Excellencies,
Korea remains strongly committed to the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement and calls on all Parties to work together to achieve our 
shared goals. Thank you. 