
Honorable Chair, 
Your Excellency Mr. Ban Ki -moon, Secretary -General of UN 
Your Excellency Ms. Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of UNFCCC 
 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Allow me to begin by congratulating ourselves for the successful entry 
into force of the Paris Agreement. This is a clear signal that the global 
community understand s the urg ency and the seriousness of the climate 
issue and t hat we are ready to stand as one to tackle the challenge before 
us. 
 
In that regard , I am proud to announce that the Republic of Korea has 
ratified the Paris Agreement on November 3rd as the 97th country . With 
this ratification, we have now officially joined our fellow countries in 
taking the bold step towards a new climate regime that promotes low 
carbon and climate resilient society for all. 
 
Mr. Chair , 
 
Now what we need to do is focus on implementation . Actions must start 
now so that the benefits can be reaped in time. 
 
The first step is for Parties to do their best t o achieve their nationally 
determined contributions. Of course, achieving NDCs is a challenging task. 
It is a task that requires approaches in two dimensions . One is ‘smart’ 
planning and the other is ‘creative’ solutions. 
 
The target year 2030 is not a distant future. In order to transform our 
society into energy -efficient and climate -resilient in just fifteen years, - 
 smart planning is essential . In the case of Korea, the government has been 
working towards developing a ‘2030 climate roadmap’ that sets concrete 
greenhouse gas reduction target s in all sectors of the society. Multi -
government ministries and diverse stakeholders are now in the process of 
developing this roadmap. 
 
New and emerging c limate challenge s call for creative solutions. Korea 
has launched the Emissions Trading Scheme and other initiatives to 
achieve our climate targets in a sustainable way. This year marks the 
second year since the ETS was launched in Korea . We are glad with the 
performance of the Korean carbon market so far . It has maintai ned a stable 
price of fourteen US dollars on average while promoting clean technology 
investments. 
 
While we strive to come up with effective solutions at the national level, 
we also need new development strategies at community level . Two key 
programs that we are currently undertaking are the ‘ Eco-friendly Energy 
Town ’ and the ‘Carbon Free Island’ in Jeju. We hope this will become an 
important showcase that low carbon climate resilient development is 
possible in the most remote communities. After all, it is the local 
governments and stakeholders who will be the champions of climate 
action at the grassroot level. 
 
Excellencies , 
 
We recognize the need to make progress in the discussions of APA. 
Creation of a transparent climate regime that continuously raises ambition 
through global stocktake is important. Furthermore, designing an 
international market to achieve the global target in a cost -effective way 
will be crucial for t he success of the Par is Agreement. 
 
Mr. Chair , 
 
We have made tremendous strides this year. We have put the Paris 
Agreement into effect. We have agreed to a market -base mechanism for
 the international aviation sector and agreed to a global reduction of HFCs. 
The next milestone will be agreeing on over twenty mandates for CMA. 
The task is upon us and with your wise leadership, I am confident that we 
will be able to carry out the task. 
 
Thank you. 