
There is no denial that climate change is a tremendous challenge and that 
we need to show ambition in addressing it!  
From 1989 to 2019, Romania’s greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 
64%. We have one of the lowest rates of emissions/capita in the Europe an Union. 
Between 1990 and 2019, Romania has also reduced its CO 2 emission intensity per 
unit of GDP by 77%, a percentage more than double the global average. 
But we are committed to do more! Further reducing emissions will be 
challenging, especially as w e move closer to net zero. I want us to work together 
to develop, manufacture and deploy new green technologies. 
Innovation is key. Among other Glasgow initiatives, Romania joins the US -
driven Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate . We also need to make sure 
that nobody is left behind in the process of green transition, jobs are created and 
social inequalities reduced.  
Romania fully supports the EU’s leading efforts on climate change and is 
committed to contribute to the EU overall 55% emission reduction by 2030. We 
have already achieved this reduction rate nationally and we are committed to keep 
cutting. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 2 
 There is no silver bullet against climate change. A set of interconnected 
measures can help us deliver. We will harness the very force of nature. Romania 
has a solid share of renewable energy in its energy mix, with 40% of our electricity 
coming from renewable sources. We are committed to expand this share. 
We will fight climate change with nature -based solut ions using 57.000 
hectares of new forests in our Recovery Plan to capture carbon and combat 
desertification. 
We also need to channel the force of people in addressing climate change. 
Education is key to environmentally friendly behaviour. We must advance 
education and research on climate change. Starting in 2023, Romania will host an 
innovative World Meteorological Organization Centre, that will help agricultural 
systems in Europe better respond to climate change. 
The impact of climate change has no natio nal borders. Let’s join our forces 
in protecting the environment, making sure we leave future generations a greener 
and safer planet! 
There is no time to lose! The time for action is now! 
Thank you! 
 