Address by H.E. Mr. Costel ALEXE 
Minister , Ministry of Environment, Waters and Forests 
Head of delegation of Romania 
Madrid, 10 December, 2019 
 
Mr. President, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
I am hono ured to have the opportunity to address you today . Please 
allow me to thank the Government of Chile for its efforts for organizing 
this COP . I am also expressing my gratitude for the timely support 
provided by the Kingdom of Spain , the city of Madrid , for the excellent 
hospitality . 
At COP24, Parties reached a successful outcome by agreeing on a 
rulebook that brings the Paris Agreement to life and makes it 
operational. 
At the previous session in June, during the Romanian Presidency of 
the Council of the European Union , we achieved substantial progress 
on many agenda items . And yet, Article 6 remains open even now, 
though it is an important tool for achieving our mitigation goal while 
preserving environmental integrity. We can do better than that.  
We have however made progr ess regarding the Enhanced 
Transparency Framework , the second review of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for loss and damage , on capacity 
building and on improving the efficiency and transparency of the 
budget process. We came here, in Madrid, with strong hopes that the progress made 
in Bonn will land an agreement on Article 6, as well as other agenda 
items mandated for this COP. 
We have also heard the voices of the young generation asking for 
immediate climate action based on scientific recommendations. 
We are committed to support the ambitious European objective of 
achieving climate neutrality by 2050. 
I would like to inform you that Romania is continuing its trend of 
decoupling its economic growth from the greenho use gas emissions. 
In 2020 Romania will finalize the Long Term Strategy for reducing 
emissions of greenhouse gases, in line with our EU commitments. 
But we are aware that this is not enough. And we are determined to 
do our best in involving all stakeholder s, Parties and non -Parties, 
public and private actors, to fundamentally transform Romania into a 
climate resilient economy, while ensuring that this transition is socially 
fair and just . 
Colleagues, 
We came here to Madrid ready to see the Paris agreement start 
moving towards implementation and the Katowice rulebook finalized . 
We have heard what scientists have said, but we must now be ready 
to face the music: it is indeed time to act decisively and consistently, 
and with full transparency . 
Thank you . 
 