Check against delivery 
 
Dear Mr. President ! 
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen! 
 
First of all, I would like to welcome the Presidency of the 
Arab Republic of Egypt to the 27th session of the Conference of 
the Parties to the UNFCCC and commend its hospitality and 
efforts for the success of the Conference. 
The world has changed dramatically since Glasgow. We are 
moving farther away from meeting the temperature goals of the 
Paris Agreement, stymied by disagreements on key issues of the 
climate agenda, and at the same time seeing the imposition of 
unnecessary restrictions that are degrading the quality and 
dramatically increasing the cost of living in many countries. The 
global energy crisis, which began as early as 2021 following the 
COVID 19 pandemic, threatens to stall the global e nergy 
transition and impede the achievement of the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals. Rising inflation and sovereign debt pose 
additional challenges for developing countries and make it more 
important than ever to scale up climate finance and provide easie r 
access to needed resources. The least developed and small island 
developing states face an especially vulnerable situation.  2 
The Russian Federation pursues a consistent and active 
policy to prevent climate change and adapt to its adverse effects 
in full c ompliance with the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement. 
We are convinced of the need to maintain the Convention as the 
key platform for multilateral coordination of measures to combat 
climate change. 
Over the past year, our country has developed a broad set of 
tools to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in various sectors of the 
economy and to achieve carbon neutrality. An experiment on the 
formation of a carbon market launched in one of Russia's regions 
has made it possible to introduce carbon pricing for greenhou se 
gas emissions and to provide additional financial impetus for their 
reduction. A roadmap for the implementation of a long -term low -
carbon development strategy, which will include measures for 
decarbonization of the energy sector, hydrogen generation, 
electrification of transport and energy efficiency, is being 
developed. 
We pay great attention to science, as well as the introduction 
of advanced technologies. Russia has declared a Decade of 
Science and Technology, a nationwide greenhouse gas 
monitoring sy stem is being created, and an unprecedented amount 
of funding has been allocated for digitalization and improvement 
of national reporting under the UNFCCC and the Paris 3 
Agreement. These steps will attract additional public and private 
funding and provide n ew and more reliable scientific data on the 
state of the global climate and the impact of energy transition on 
the global and national economies. 
We express serious concern at any plans by certain states and 
regional associations to revise previous commitm ents under the 
pretext of a difficult geopolitical situation. Russia has warned of 
the negative consequences of the "race to climate ambition" when 
the declaration of carbon neutrality was made without proper 
strategy and resource and financial support. Pa rties to the 
UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement have the right to choose their 
own means of achieving climate goals. 
Mr. President, 
The future progress of multilateral efforts to combat climate 
change depends on this Conference. We have an obligation to 
present a tangible outcome to the global community and to future 
generations. Developed countries must demonstrate real 
leadership and scale up financial resources and technology to 
developing countries. We need a unified vision for the future of 
climate finance and a solution to the loss and damage that is fair 
and acceptable to all. It is important to take adaptation measures 
seriously in different regions of the world, from the equator to the 
polar latitudes. We must also lay the groundwork for the 4 
upcoming Global Stocktake in 2023, to fully launch the 
cooperation mechanisms of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. The 
success of the Confe rence will demonstrate, despite all 
differences, our ability to respond together to the global 
challenges of our time. 
Thank you for your attention.  