STATEMENT OF ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES AT 
THE UNFCCC COP28 HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT 
(28TH CONFERENCE OF PARTIES OF THE UNITED NATIONS 
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE AT EXPO 
CITY, DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
ON DECEMBER 2, 2023 
 
BY 
DR. THE HONOURABLE RALPH E. GONSALVES 
PRIME MINISTER OF ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 
 
 
[FORMAL GREETINGS ] 
 
At the outset, I affirm that I am here in solidarity with the 
government and people of the United Arab Emirates; in solidarity 
with the people of the State of Palestine, especially those who are 
currently suffering horrendously in Gaza; and in solidarit y with 
humanity on the calamity of an unfolding man -made climate 
crisis. I raise a first pertinent observation: If the global community 
is doing little or nothing to stop the televised genocide taking place 
in Gaza before our very eyes, is it surprising t hat we are doing 
precious little to avert the less directly visible climate change? 
 
Overwhelmingly, and correctly, the global community has the 
settled view that human beings, by their acts of commission and 
omission, have been causing, and are accelerati ng dangerously, a “climate change crisis” which portends an enveloping global 
disaster for life, living, and production. 
 
Essentially, human beings are sleep -walking into a disaster of 
historic proportions. Nothing that has been proposed so far at this 
Conference of Parties has risen to the level of the urgency and scale 
of the transformation required, nay, de manded, to avert the 
impending debacle for humanity. The leaders of the countries 
which are the major emitte rs of green -house gases know i t; the 
profiteering corporate barons , globally , know it; the informed 
population of our planet know it ; we in the Caribbean know it quite 
well because we feel it; the world’s poorest people who experience 
daily the consequence s of calamitous climate change know it very 
well. Yet, we continue to tinker here and there with paltry 
initiatives and celebrate them , falsely, as epoch -making and 
transformative. We may fool ourselves; we cannot fool nature . 
Humanity is facing a metaphoric chasm, a sprawling di vide 
between what is required and what is being timidly advanced; we 
cannot cross this chasm by baby steps; if we seek to do so, we 
would fall below, and beneath, the widening gorge.  
 Saving humanity from the disaster of man -made climate change is 
a great cause . But great causes have never been won by doubtful 
men and women. Centrally, the planet cannot survive beyond 
global warming in excess of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre -
industrial levels. On present course, humanity will exceed this 
target , soonest. We know the compelling answers to this existential 
challenge, but we recoil from embracing them and acting upon 
them . 
 
As in any great cause, the answers or solutions revolve around four 
critical requisites: Nothing is possible without people; nothing is 
doable without high qu ality, strategic leadership; nothing is 
achievable without the mobilization of a sufficiency of resources; 
and nothing is sustainable without specially -crafted institutions to 
deliver the transformative results agreed upon. 
 
We have not been involving the earth’s people in an informed and 
structured manner as is necessary and desirable ; the planet’s 
leadership on this existential matter has been, by -and-large, very 
poor, and shows , currently, little sign of improving; the resources 
which are available among the rich countries and the rich people of our planet have not been mobilized in any sufficiency for the 
tasks at hand; and the global institutions to address the haunting 
bundle of sustaina ble issues are in a ramshackle condition and 
there is currently very little likelihood of their efficacious reform to 
make them fit for purpose. Unless, w e address collectively, and in 
solidarity, each of these considerations optimally, humanity, as we 
know it, is doomed. This is not the usual end -of-times doomsday 
scenario of inevitability grounded in religious prophesy. 
 
In this great cause, it is necessary and desirable to apply the 
Aristot alitarian proposition: Equity among equals; proportionality 
among unequa ls. The rich and powerful countries have a huge 
obligation to right the historic and current wrongs; we, the 
metaphoric unwashed multitudes must, in solidarity , insist on 
that, and at the same time do our part responsibly , urgently. 
 
Thank you.  