1 
 World Leaders’ Summit 
Twenty Sixth Conference of the Parties (COP 26) to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
Glasgow, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
Monday, November 01 - Tuesday, November 02, 2021 
3-Minute National Statement by Honourable Philip Joseph Pierre 
Prime Minister of SAINT LUCIA 
 
Mr. President , I join in commending you for hosting this momentous 
convergence of world leaders , to set the stage for the United Nations 
Climate Change conference this year. As we grapple with the global 
pandemic , I believe our presence here is te stimony to our recognition that 
we are at a critical juncture; a tipping point . 
This is the last decad e, 2020 -2030 - the last chance to set the world on 
track to 1.5 degrees. The question is, will we rise to the chall enge? Will our 
moral conscience prevail? Small Island Developing States as my country, 
Saint Lucia, whose special circumstances and needs were settled in Paris , 
are in the midst of crisis for humanity. 
The UN Secretary General described the IPCC Working Group 1 Report as 
“a code red for humanity .” Undeniably, certain changes, such as sea level 
rise and ocean acidificaton are already locked in, with dire consequences 
for SIDS and low lying states . But we know that 1.5 degrees Celsius is still 
within our reach. To achiev e it, we must act, and act now! 
Countries must urgently bring forward new NDCs with 2030 targets 
consistent with the 1.5 -degree temperature goal, supported by credible 
net zero -by-2050 long -term strategies.  We must support wind, solar and 
other renewable energy investments. 
The power to turn things around lies in our collective hands. We must be 
focused a nd resolute . We cannot vacillate on matters of human survival.  
 2 
 In this regard, world leaders must deliver on the long -term climate finance 
goal that was promised, supporting, not only mitigation, but a lso 
adaptation. We must also raise the profile of, and mainstream loss and 
damage as a distinct pillar of climate action and support . 
 
Moreover, it is high time that we complete the Paris Rulebook . When we 
bring to fru -i-tion that vital work, we can strengthen accountability and 
enable the highest possible ambition, while ensuring transparency and 
environmental integrity. 
 
Colleagues, fr iends, we, in the developing world, are on the front lines, 
exposed. Our poor vulnerable citizens have limited ability to respond to 
climate change effects and so, their quality of life is significantly 
diminished. 
 
As responsible leaders, can we, in good conscience, sacrifice humanity for 
industry?  Will we continue to ignore the science to gamble with the future 
of our youth, women, indigenous communities, private sector and NGOs?  
What are the prospects for nations like Taiwan, yet to be recognised by the 
UN as a bona fide state, but also confronting climate change , while 
support ing SIDS ? 
 
The young people who will inherit this planet, are watching us. We cannot 
fail them. Let us not be that generation of leaders who had the last chance 
to set t he world on track , but chose not to put people first . 
 
I thank you. 
 
October 2021 
 
 
 