
What goes around , comes around. And while Samoa and Small Island Developing 
States are victims n ow of the impacts of climate change, as sure as the sun rises in the 
East and sets in the West, your turn will come , sooner rather th an late r. 
 
There is a misguided notion to portray climate change as a small island developing 
states concern only. Nothing can be further from the truth . Climate change crosses 
borders by force and uninvited and does not discriminate by size or might , and will 
impact every country, though some more extensively than others, like SIDS because of 
their unique vulnerabilities. 
 
But times are changing. 
The world has witnessed in recent times epic occurrences of horrific disasters from 
climate change and national hazard risks unprecedented in the 74 -year hist ory of th e 
United Nations. Tornadoes, bushfires , earthquakes, flooding, droughts – all have 
resulted in countless loss of lives and untold suffering , and set s back for years the 
development of some countries.  
 
The Paris Agreement was lauded as a rem arkable feat of shared responsibility of bold 
action. Members decisiveness and unanimity resulted in the agreement’s entering in to 
force in record time , an u nprecedented achievement – and a positive reminder that , 
where there is a will and unity of purpose, t here is always a way, and when every 
member state irr espective of economic or political status steps forward to lend a 
supportive hand, the chances of success are invariably high. 
 
The focus of the Paris Agreement on ambitious national action and the incl usion of all 
member states is a timely reminder that “many hands make light work ” and all 
contributions matter , and no action is too small or insignificant as every action count .
 
Importantly, it places the responsi bility of addressing climate change squarely on every 
individual leader in terms of what national actions he or she can commit to deliver as 
his or her country’s contribution to our collective task.  
 
Sadly, 
Even before the implement ation phase of the Pa ris Agreement commences, the same 
parties that negotiated every single word and sentence in the agreement before it was 
gaveled, are this week suddenly finding loopholes, using narrow legal interpretations 
and disguised excuses to renegotiate the spirit of the agreement to conveniently opt out 
of their o bligations , if not to renege on their responsibilities altogether . 
One wonders whether some parties are here to join us find ambitious and effective 
solutions to address climate change or simply to stifle p rogress to protect their vested 
national interests. 
 
But today, Samoa, as a mem ber of other like -minded groups including the “High 
Ambition Coalition ”, is here to be part of the solution in our fight against the causes of 
climate change . We are keen to le ad, and not to be led. Even if the impact of our 
efforts is negligible , we are committe d to do everything possible through our enhanced 
NDCs for the benefit of our people, our generation and those to follow. 

Those suggesting they are implementing bold act ions for the sake of our vulnerable 
Small Island Developing states should instead take time to inform t heir constituents and 
voters alike, especially th ose who believe in climate change , that in the final analysis, 
the actions they will implement will bene fit their economies, their people and ultimately 
the very survival of their own countri es. 
 
Madam President, 
When Samoa and SIDS told the world early that their coastlines were eroding, the sea 
level was rising and climate change was humanly induced, some member states 
scorned at the notion and did not take our concerns seriously. Instead, t hey asked for 
scientific evidence to back up our claim, as a convenient stalling tactic to frustrate our 
resolve. Yet, when the world’s top scientists, including some of their countries very best 
validated our concerns scientifically, including the report on the imperative of keeping 
global warming to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, some countries refused to accept the 
evidence and still use every opportunity to discredit such reports. 
 
Science has spoken , and the message clear and unambiguous . 
Humanity’s abil ity to keep global warming below 1.5 degree Celsius is possible, but we 
must unite behind the science. From extreme weather events to sea level rise, from 
slowed economi c growth to biodiversity loss, the report speaks to the risks of exceeding 
1.5 degrees Celsius because ignoring it will lead to far greater consequences. Science Page 
 should not be used selectively and championed only when it suits a government’s 
agenda and dis carded and abandoned freely when it doesn’t.  
 
Our Pacific region’s contribution to th e science interface is through the Pacific Climate 
Change Centre in Samoa to play a critical role in enhancing the awareness particularly 
of Pacific island countries on the complexities of climate change and its impacts. The 
Centre is an important regional resource we can use to support our efforts to build 
more resilient Pacific Island Communities. The Pacific Climate Change Centre will be a 
globally respected Centre of Excellence providing practical information, support and 
training to address the adapta tion and mitigation priorities of Pacific communities. It will 
be underpinned by strong partnerships with Pacific Governments, applied research 
institutions, donors, civil society and the private sector. 
 
Thank you and God Bless . 
 
 