STATEMENT BY THE HON PRIME MINISTER
TUILAEPA SAILELE MALIELEGAOI AT THE HIGH
LEVEL MEETING OF COP 22 MARRAKECH

Mr. President,
Excellencies,
Distinguished delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen;

Over the past year, we collectively contributed to the
achievement of a historic turning point in the global fight
against climate change. Our solidarity to commit to the
cause was made more evident with the entry into force of
the Agreement on the 4 of November, a_ truly
unprecedented global achievement.

All Pacific small island states have signed and ratified the
Agreement before then. The ‘rush’ in momentum should
not be allowed to slow down, and countries that have yet

to join the agreement must do so.

Mr. President

We have gathered in this wonderful city to determine how
we can back up words with real and timely action, and, in
accordance with the Sustainable Development Goals. We

Page 1 of 4

and time-bound as well.

We have come together to identify linkages between
human rights, gender equality and climate change. We
have also come to identify opportunities to collaborate and
exchange knowledge and good practices, with a view to
strengthening capacities to deliver responses to climate

change, that are good for people and planet.

Mr. President

Marrakech, should be the starting point for strengthening
countries’ ambitions in line with the 1.5 degrees target and
national long term country strategies. There is urgency in
increasing nationally determined contributions over the
next two years, if we are to avert jeopardizing the Paris

Agreement’s essential temperature goals.

Let us therefore, turn our attention to the built-in
mechanisms to assess progress and scale up ambition as
they are indeed the action points! COP 22 should look to
successfully concluding the 2016 facilitative dialogue and

define modalities for implementation.

Mr. President

Tha crictrainahla finanrinn nf nrinrityw adantatinn and

islands developing states, are essential to move the finance
agenda forward, a call championed in the SAMOA Pathway,
the blueprint of the sustainable development agenda of
Small Island Developing States.

A review of the International mechanism for Loss and
Damage suggests that it has not even moved close to
delivering bold actions to protect the most vulnerable. COP
22 should look therefore to accelerating progress in the
initiation of the 5year rolling plan of the Loss and Damage

mechanism.

Mr. President

Climate finance is particularly important for Small islands
developing states, given the significant amount of financial,
technical, technological and capacity building support
needed, to adapt to the impacts of climate change. We
therefore call on the climate finance entities to assist in
facilitating timely access to these resources through
simplified approval procedures and enhanced readiness

support.

There should not be any delay in the release of the finance
roadmap for providing US$100 billion annually. Parties
need to work together to improve predictability and
certainty of new and additional public and grant based

Page 3 of 4

needs:

Mr. president

For the Paris agreement to be universal, effective capacity

is critical to enable developing countries to
requirements and

cheir new
and climate resilient

building
te culfillment of

facilita
wards low carbon

transition to
ards the

economies:
based in

For this reason,
ntly Jaunch Climate ch
the Centr

ange centre,
will offer new,

rece
allenges

Samoa, as

innovative and best

of cli

Finally, Mr.
ment and
nference 4
Y delegation.

Govern

important co

extended to me and m

Thank you:

