
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, Colleagues, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
we would like to express our thanks to the British and Italian authorities for 
the excellent organis ation of this important event . 
The recent IPCC report confirms that negative predictions are now a certainty. 
To quote UN Secretary -General António Guterres , the report is ‘a code red’ for 
humanity . It will force us to take increasingly difficult choices. Good intentions 
cannot remain pious hopes: if political commitments taken during these days 
remained a dead letter, it would be an intolerable defeat. 
We recognize that the impacts of climate change at 1.5°C are much lower t han 
at 2°C and that immediate action must be taken to keep 1.5°C within reac h. 
We acknowledge the close nexus between climate and energy, as well as we 
understand the importance of a just and inclusi ve clean energy transition . 
San Marino is a small State but being small does not prevent us to be 
ambitious. We want to be an open -air laboratory, where innovations by willing 
and fair -minded people are discussed , tested and assessed on their 
effectiveness . It is indeed possible and necessary to start small in order to 
implement big changes, to move one step at a time, but decisively.
Therefore, we would like to call on small nations to join efforts to implement 
common initiatives that would otherwise be bey ond their reach . We cannot but 
call on international organisations to devise new systems that will enable small 
states to make a stronger multilateral contribution . Together we are stronger, 
as the history of the United Nations teaches us. San Marino wan ts to be active 
with other Nations, now more than ever. 
In July 2021 , San Marino presented its first Voluntary National Review on the 
implementation of the 17 goals of the 2030 Agenda . We are currently drawing 
our 'Action plan for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals’ 
and the first draft will be ready by the end of the year. Action to combat climate 
change, under Goal 13, features prominently on the set of national init iatives. 
Virtuous policies we intend to implement are numerous, from the development 
of renewable sources to the promotion of electric and hybrid mobility. Measures 
to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, to c ontain emissions from 
companies and to strengthen a national centralised data collection system are 
equally crucial . 
San Marino has made and is making its best efforts to respect the commitm ents 
deriving from all the very important Agreements that have brought us this far. 
We know well, howeve r, that it is not enough. If we do not act together, the 
consequences of our inaction will go far beyond state borders and will harshly 
affect next generations , who are uniting in movements such as Fridays for 
Future . Young people are clamouring for just one thing: the courage to change. 
We owe them a credible answer, because it is their future and we cannot 
prevent them to live in a better planet.  
Thank you for your attention. 