REGGENZA D ELLA REPUBBLICA 
 
REPUBBLICA DI SAN MARINO Check against delivery 
 
SPEECH BY THEIR EXCELLENCIES THE CAPTAINS REGENT OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO MIRCO TOMASSONI AND LUCA 
SANTOLINI AT THE 24TH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE 
PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON 
CLIMATE CHANGE 
 
Mr. President, 
Mr. Secretary General, 
Excellencies, Colleagues, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
First of all, we would like to express the heartfelt thanks of the Republic of San 
Marino to the Po lish Authorities for the excellent organisation and hospitality 
at this important event, which allows us to necessarily make together a 
reflection on the future of our planet. 
A San Marino psychiatrist , Sebastiano Bastianelli, during a talk a few weeks 
ago defined the historical period in which we are living as "the Narcissus time". 
He meant that the end of the last century and the beginning of this new 
millennium have been marked by the affirmation, starting from the richest 
societies to the rest of the wo rld, of a sort of collective narcissism that pushes 
the citizens of our countries and, going up step by step the social pyramid, 
politicians and institutions, to focus exclusively on their immediate needs or 
those of their reference group. 
To become polit icians people need votes, and to gain the votes of narcissistic 
citizens, people cannot have long -term views. They need to satisfy instinctive, 
immediate and partisan needs. REGGENZA D ELLA REPUBBLICA 
 
REPUBBLICA DI SAN MARINO In this historical context, this is the main problem facing world society, which, 
at the same time, is addressing the greatest and most complicated challenge 
for its survival - a challenge against itself. 
We have no alternative if we want to limit climate change, combat pollution 
poisoning water and land, achieve the minimum objectives contained in the 
Paris agreement, avoid the devastating consequences expected annually in 
each IPCC report and manage not to destroy our only common home. It is 
necessary to make bold and expensive political choices very quickly, despite 
the economic crisi s affecting the public finances of most of the countries that 
we represent here today. These choices do not bring an immediate benefit; 
they rather require enormous sacrifices, but will allow us to leave a liveable 
planet, if possible a better one, to o ur children and grandchildren. This should 
also be the primary purpose of policymakers. 
The Republic of San Marino, which we are honoured to represent today, was 
only for technical reasons one of the last countries to ratify the Paris Agreement 
and can certainly make a limited contribution, due to its size, to the global 
challenge. Nevertheless, it has already set up a series of projects, s ome of 
which are already under way, which will be implemented in the coming years, 
in order to meet the emission reduction and biodiversity protection objectives 
that we have set all together between now and 2030. 
From the reduction of emissions from compa nies and vehicles and the 
promotion of sustainable tourism, to the "Organic San Marino" project, which 
aims to make our small Republic the first country in Europe where only 
sustainable soil management methods are applied in just 5 years, San Marino 
is spa ring no efforts to do its part, by virtue of that collective responsibility so 
well identified in the text of the Agreement. 
We know, however, that by ourselves we are only a drop in the sea, while the 
clock is running fast and the time available to us to avoid the disaster is 
increasingly reducing. We therefore hope that all those who are here today will 
share with us the need to prioritise environmental issues on the political agenda 
of their respective countries. 
Thank you for your attention. 