Let me start by congratulating Fiji for its contribution as President of 
COP23 , and thank the German government for hosting this important 
event. I also want to praise the Kingdom of Morocco for their excellent 
work at COP22 last year . 
 
Today, in the statement of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, I would like to 
cover three main issues . 
 
First, as we start the implementation stage I believe we should put to 
action what we have reached in the Paris Agreement . It already has 
clear objectives: limiting temperature rise; building resilience ; and 
enabling the finance required to flow.  
 
But because they must all be realized within the context of sustainab le 
development , which is v ital for achieving climate goals , Saudi Arabia 
sees an opportunity to fulfil these objectives in all three areas , through 
the utilization of financial flow in the development and use of clean 
technologies. We must promote economic growth, cost -effective ness 
while achieving the highest emissions reductions from all sources . 
 
In particular , we need to work on all energy resources including 
renewables and conventional fuels. That requires us to adopt a positive, 
pragmatic , and realistic approach that does not target a particular policy 
or technology. Because h ydrocarbons, empowered by clean technology, 
as part of the wider energy mix, will continue to have a vital role in 
meet ing the sustainable economic – and emission – goals of the Paris 
Agreement. 
 
Second , we believe that the 2018 COP work program should achieve 
three main criteria. 
 
First, it should strictly adhere to the poli tical balance achieved in Paris, 
which called for reducing emissions regardless of its source. In this 
context it is essential, under the Paris Agreement and in keeping with its 
essence, to stop targeting fossil fuels. 
 
 Second , maintaining the nationally identified contributions , on which 
the agreement wa s based, as a one-size -fits-all approach simply won’t 
work. 
 
Third , meeting all commitments ; the most important of which is 
financing which shoul d cover all available solutions including support to 
natural sinks that absorb CO2 emissions .  
 
 
Finally, I would like to emphasize that in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
we are exerting considerable efforts to achieve the contributions we 
committed to under the Paris Agreement. 
 
For us, and the wider GCC region, the energy, water , and environment 
nexus is critical in ensuring any sustainable development program for 
the future.  It is also key to complying with the Paris Agreement and 
achieving its objectives.  
 
That is why the Kingdom’s nationally identified contributions are based 
on addressing this nexus in a balanced manner by targeting win -win 
policies and measures that contribute to building resilience. 
 
Moreover, as energy is a vital mover of our economies , please allow me 
to share some examples of our practical achievements in this field 
particularly . 
 
On conventional fuels, we are doubling our natural gas production to 
displace the direct burning of crude oil in power generation and water 
desalination. We also have a CO2 -EOR pilot at Uthmaniyah . 
 
We have also commissioned the world’s largest CO2 -to-chemicals plant 
in Jubail on our east coast . 
 
And on renewables, we recently received historically low bids for a 
300MW solar facility to be located in northern Saudi Arabia. The lowest 
two bids for this project were at less than 2 US cents per kilowatt hour.  
This is but our first step towards Saudi Arabia becoming a solar energy 
exploitation , production and even exporting powerhouse. 
 Mr. President, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we don’t just talk the talk , we are 
walking the walk, and our commitment to achieving the goals of the 
Paris Agreement is clear for all to see . 
 
Thank you. 
 
 