Statement by the Mr. Goran Trivan, Minister of Environmental Protection of the Republic 
of Serbia 
durring the COP23 High -level segment 
 
- Verison 1.0 - 
Mr President, 
Your Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
At the Earth Summit in Rio, 25 years ago, we concluded that the World needs a change. The Paris 
Agreement confirmed re adiness of the international community to continue to change. In order to 
implement the Paris agreement we have some specific goals we must achieve. 
 
Thus we believe the COP23 shall deliver a number of milestone conclusions that will ensure 
complete structure of the Paris Agreement and strengthen its impacts. In this regard and in 
achievement of these goals besides mitigation pledges, finance and technology de velopment and 
transfer are essential for us. 
 
In that regard and as the Party that submitted its INDC among the first 10 countries in the World 
and that is the Party to the Paris Agreement since August this year, Serbia started establishment of 
a system f or: 
- evaluation of current and preparation of successive NDC, 
- identification of the long -term goals and  
- monitoring and reporting of implementation in a transparent manner . 
 
In 2019 Climate change strategy with the Action plan of the Republic of Serbia will ensure 
ambitious national mitigation pledges and identify the actions and resources for their achievement 
in the following years and by the end of the century. 
Currently d eveloped Law on climate change will ensure monitoring and reporting on 
implementation of the Strategy and its elements relevant for the achievement of the Paris 
Agreement goals.  
Furthermore, as for the country already vulnerable to climate change, work o n disaster risk 
reduction and adaptation related actions is among the priorities. As it was stated in our INDC, t he 
total damage caused by extreme climate and weather conditions, in the period 2000 - 2015, exceeds 
5 billion euro, and more than 70% of the l osses are associated with droughts and high temperatures. 
Another major cause of significant losses was floods. 
Taking into account there is no analysis of the damage resulting from the long -term climate 
changes as well as of long -term investments in the area of adaptation in the Republic of Serbia, 
those are the priorities we will be working on, believing we could expect support of the 
international community and especially of the Green climate fund. Moreover we believe COP 23 
will result in related mil estones that are important not only for Serbia but for all other countries. . 
We are standing ready to contribute to the COP 23 success 