 
National S tatement of the Republic of Serbia 
delivered by H.E. Ms. Katarina Lalic Smajevic, Ambassador Extraordinary and 
Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Serbia in the Kingdom of Spain 
 COP25 High -level segment 
 
 
Mr. President, 
 
 
I represent a country that is more affected by climate change than most places on the Earth . 
Depending on the climate scenario, the temperature in Serbia, by the end of the century, could 
be 3 to 5 degrees Celsius higher, compared to the mid -20th century . In the future, we can expect 
further temperature and precipitation record breaks , which will have a devastating impact on 
the people and economy of Serbia. Since 2000 e xtreme heat waves, droughts and floods have 
cost us more than 5 billion Euros . 
 
Limiting the increase of mean global temperature by the end of the century by 2°C would lead 
to a loss of Serbia's GDP of 4.53% by mid -century, which can be significantly reduced by 
investing in the adaptation to climate change. However , the process of low carbon 
transformation into a climate -adapted society can additionally endanger the already vulnerable 
groups of the population through the loss of jobs . 
Nonetheless , the most expensive scenario for Serbia is to ignore the climate related costs 
in its strategic decisions. System costs of “non -action” are several tens of billion euros 
higher than the additional system costs of action under any mitigation scenario. 
Climate change poses a significant risk for further development of Serbia as was expressed in 
our NDCs . This risk largely depends on the increase in the mean global temperature, which 
cannot be significantly influenced by Serbia individually. 
I am proud to announce that we are about to adopt the Law on Climate Change as well as our 
Low carbon development strategy with the A ction plan, which were developed with the 
technical and financial assistance of the EU. The a im is to set up a system for mitigation and 
adaptation in line with the Paris Agreement and our obligations as a candidate country to the 
EU. Our future Low carbon development strategy up to 2050 sets a vision for a long -term 
climate neutral and climate resilient society, to be achiev ed on a socially fair and cost -effective 
way, with positive effects on environment and sustainable de velopment. The Action plan up to 
2030, defines the policies and measures for cost effective and socially fair pathways to our 
climate vision as well as pro motion of transition to net zero, climate neutral and climate 
resilient economy and society. 
We submitted our NDCs among the first ten countries in the world, and the first in the region 
for which we are particularly proud . I am even more proud to announce that the revised 
NDCs will be more ambitious, with our target set to increase more than three t imes . 
Finally, let me reiterate that the Republic of Serbia is ready to cooperat e. We are looking 
forward to the completion of the Paris Agreement and we are hopeful that the climate ambition 
will be increased and Paris Agreement fulfilled. 