COP27 – Formal Address 
Sharm el Sheik 15/16 November 2022 
Mr. President, Dear Colleagues, 
• First and foremost, allow me to extend a heartfelt congratulations to the Government of Egypt 
for organising an excellent conference, despite the challenges we all face today worldwide. 
• We are all aware of the fact that the mean global temperature increased by 1.1 degree Celsius 
compared to the preindustrial level. H owever, the average temperature increase in the 
Republic of Serbia has alread y reached 1.8 degrees. Hence, the minimum material damage in 
Serbia in the period from 2000 to 2020 is estimated to have exceeded 6.8 billion euros. More 
than 70% of the damage was c aused by droughts and high temperatures due to climate change 
and extreme weather events. 
• We take seriously our task to prepare the Republic of Serbia for all challenges and 
concurrently contribute to the global fight against climate change . 
• Therefore, I am especially pleased to be able to announce that this year in August, the Republic 
of Serbia submitted to the UNFCCC Secretariat its revised Nationally Determined 
Contribution, thus confirming not only our commitment to curbing the greenhouse gas 
emission s, but also pledging to reduc ing our greenhouse gas emissions by 33.3% by 2030 and 
rising our climate ambition by more than three times compared to our first NDC. 
• Our vision is a prosperous and climate -resilient Serbia. This vision forms the backbone of ou r 
future Low Carbon Development Strategy , thus paving our way towards decarbonization for 
the whole society. The future Strategy will lay the foundations for Serbia with cleaner, reliable 
and renewable energy sources a nd increased energy efficiency, and ensure resilient, protected 
forests and nature, including the integration of nature -based innovative solutions. 
• In line with our vision, we are also intensively working on our first Climate Change Adaptation 
Programme, which will strengthen the Republic of Serbia in terms of climate risk and its 
assessment, as well as adaptation to climate change. The program will improve measures in 
the most vulnerable sectors, such as agriculture, water management, forestry and human 
health . 
• As reliable pa rtners, we are committed not only to the Paris Agreement, but also to joining the 
European Union. As the largest economy in the Western Balkans, we confirmed our 
commitment to achieving EU Green Deal targets by signing the Sofia Declaration on the Green 
Agenda for the Western Balkans. 
• We must not forget that transition to a low -carbon society must be just and fair, leaving no 
one behind. Our need to act is supported by estimation that the cost of inaction would amount 
to €53 billion , which is more expensive than our long -term, low -carbon transformation. 
• Dear ministers, respected delegates, I invite you to work jointly for the well -being of current 
and future generations. That is why we need to show solidarity. 
• The Sharm el Sheikh conference represents a key chance to adopt the decisions that w ill much 
influence the framework of action as regards the most important aspect of our li fe - the 
preservation of our common home - the planet . Thank you . 