I would like to express my gratitude to His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al 
Nahyan and to the people of the United Arab Emirates for the warm welcome and 
hospitality extended to my delegation and myself . I take this opportunity to congratulate 
you on the organisation of COP28 and wish you prosperity as you celebrate your 52nd 
National Day. 
The collective efforts to foster cooperation in response to the most pressing issue of our 
time are indeed commendable . I am honoured , therefore, to address this esteemed 
assembly, on behalf of the people of Seychelles . 
In our shared pursuit of a sustainable future, the urgency of our deliberations here in Dubai 
cannot be o verstated. As parties to the convention, we committed to deliver on 
commitments such as the USD100 billion promise , Scaling up Adaptation Finance, New 
Collective Quantified Goal on Finance and most recently the Loss and Damage Fund . We 
are yet at another COP and I am dishearten ed to state that most of these commitments are 
yet to be fulfilled despite the urgency required to address the climate crisis. 
As Leaders , I call for your unwavering shift in political -will t hat will translate into concrete 
actions so as to confine global temperature rise within the critical threshold of 1.5 degrees 
Celsius. 
Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen, 
Small Island Developing States are on the frontline of climate change, facing rising sea 
levels, coastal erosion, increased frequency of extreme weather events, and the loss of vital 
ecosystems. Whether we are high income, low income or among the Least Developed 
countries, our specificities are the same and what the industrialised nations emit have a 
direct impact on our coastlines and livelihoods. We are simply islands floating in the ocean, 
 and therefore we must be treated as a unique and separate category when it comes to 
assisting us. I call on SIDS to unite and support each other. 
As I speak, my country is experi encing devastating impacts of climate change , specifically 
damage to the coastline and critical coastal infrastructure caused by higher tides, frequent 
storm surges and heavy rainfall. Couple d with other impacts, these are endanger ing the 
livelihoods of my people and our Islands. 
A recent comprehensive survey on ly on the main populated granitic islands of Seychelles 
conducted by our technical team estimated around USD 22 million is needed for road 
infrastructure works and other measure s to mitigate coastal erosion.  Our updated ND C 
highlighted a further USD600 million will be required over the next 10 years, for both 
mitigation and adaptation sector , translat ing to 5% of GDP annually or 10% of the annual 
budget . If we are to add the dis aster happening to our coralline outer islands, that figure 
could be doubled, let alone tripled.  
Like many SIDS, 90 per cent of the country’ infrastructure and human activities occur 
along its low -lying coastal areas and are thus vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. 
The c urrent trajectory means Seychelles’ econom y stands to be severely undermi ned, 
whereby forcing us to divert much needed finance to environment protection , instead of 
investing in education, health, sports, agriculture, food security, modernisation and giving 
our people a better standard of living. 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentle men, 
We made history last year by establishing the Loss and Damage Fund and this year, we 
made history again by operationalizing the Loss and Damage Fund on the first day of this 
COP, with UAE and Germany pledging USD100 million each . It is absolutely vital that 
this fund is equitable and genuinely helpful to countries t hat are experiencing climate -
related disasters. It should be inclusive enough without limiting access to finance, 
especially for High -income SIDS like Seychelles. We need les s complicated and complex 
financial mechanism that will allow us SIDS to easily access those financial opportunities. 
Again, my call is to consider our special circumstances . 
Seychelles, for example is known to be outside the cyclone belt and we are consi dered high 
income. But when a cyclone hits neighbouring Madagascar or Mauritius, the effects of 
adverse weather conditions affect all our islands, including our capital. In April 2016, 
Fantala, a Category 5 cyclone hit our island of Farquhar 3 times, destr oying everything, 
including the communication network and homes of workers, creating two new islands in 
the lagoon. The resulting tsunami of the earthquake of December 20 04 in Sumatra, 
Indonesia, thousands of miles away, travelled all the way to Seychelles destroying human  
 life and coastal infrastructure. My point is simple: Don’t categorise islands into economic 
bands but treat all islands in the same manner and allow all of us to have access to the Loss 
and Damage Fund. We all lose from the damage you cause , yet we clean up our emissions 
and help mop up those of industrialised nations . 
The current criteria used to access concessionary finance puts Small Island Developing 
States (SIDS) such as Seychelles at a severe disadvantage under the current labels . There 
is an urgent need to reform the multilateral international financial institutions to address 
the restrictive conditionalities. This reform is necessary to help fund climate change 
projects. In other words, finance needs to be more readily available, accessible and 
affordable to support these projects . As the current chair of SIDS -Dock and the African 
Island States Climate Commission, my plea to COP28 is for the developed world and the 
multilateral international financial institutions to have a fresh look at the SIDS , which in 
fact are Large Oceanic States and to take into account our respective particularities. 
Despite contributing very little to global emissions, Small Island Developing States (SIDS) 
like Seychelles bear the brunt of the climate crisis. We are actively engaged in 
decarbonizing our energy sector including transitioning to green mobility . Additionally, as 
a dedicated environment al champion, Seychelles remains committed to safeguard its 
terrestrial and marine ecosystems . When I signed the United Nations High Seas Treaty or 
the BBNJ earlier this year at the UN, I smiled to myself because in a sense Seychelles had 
already ratified i t since we are already protecting 32% of the ocean under our care. Plus , I 
am very pleased to say that we are not just on track, but ahead of schedule. We are 
protecting 99% of our seagrasses and 84% of our mangroves and another 50% of our scarce 
land mass. Recent sighting s of blue whales in our waters after more than 60 years absence 
serves as evidence that our conservat ion efforts are creating a safe -haven for marine life. 
The message is loud and clear: Seychelles is a committed partner that can be trusted. We 
believe in what we preach and we walk the talk . The evidence is th ere. However, we cannot 
do it alone. We need the financial support of the whole world. 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
The metaphorical hourglass is dwindling . COP 28 presents a pivotal call to action to build 
climate resilience before the last grain of sand slips away. In unity and determination, let 
us seize this moment to reverse our course and forge a sustainable and resilient future for 
generations to come.  
Let’s not leave anyone behind.   
I thank you. 