 
 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL STATEMENT BY THE MINISTER OF THE ENVIRONMENT 
AND SPATIAL PLANNING OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA  
H.E. SIMON ZAJC 
 
 
 
UN Climate Change Conferen ce (COP 25) - December 2019 
Madrid, 10.12.2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Distinguished President Sánchez), 
Heads of States and Governments, 
President of the COP25, Minister Carolina Schmidt,  
Ministers, Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Allow me to express my gratitude to the Government of Chile for their dedicated work 
to ensure a successful COP25. I would also like to thank the Go vernment of Spain for 
offering their support to the Chilean Presidency. We greatly ap preciate the decision of 
Spain to step up to the plate an d make sure that the COP25 meet ing takes place today. 
 
Climate change, as we all know, is one of the most pressing and defining global issues 
of our time. As we hear every day i t is our generation that has the possibility and 
duty to reverse the negative trend of global warming. 
 
Last year, at COP24, most of the Rulebook was successfully adop ted. This year’s COP 
has to finalise the last elements of the Rulebook in order to m ake the Paris Agreement 
fully operational.  
As we are building on the curren t momentum of the call for more ambitious action, we 
must show that this call is heard and understood. Our climate e fforts must be in line 
w i t h t h e s c i e n t i f i c c o n s e n s u s o n limiting global warming to 1.5 °C, and that the 
scientific community must actively be engaged in this climate a ction process. 
 As we update our National Determined Contributions and prepare ambitious long-term 
climate strategies on the basis of IPCC reports and this year’s Emissions Gap Report, 
let us keep in mind that the successful implementation of the P aris Agreement will 
demand joint efforts from us all. No single country can tackle climate change on its 
own. Each of us is but a small pi ece in the grand mosaic that i s the Paris agreement. 
 Slovenia advocates the vision of carbon neutrality by 2050 at t he latest. With this in 
mind, we are in the final stages of the preparation of the new climate law which will incorporate the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 into our legi slation. This will 
represent a solid ground for Slovenia’s long-term climate strat egy as part of our 
transition to a green economy and a more sustainable society. 
 Slovenia, for example is also an active memb er of the Green Grou p consisting of six 
small climate-ambitious countries which ai m at promoting enviro nmental issues in 
international relations. Let me draw your attention to the joint statement of the Green 
Group, in which we call for enhanced co llective action and ambiti ous measures, such 
as accelerating technology transfer to deve loping and the least developed countries, in 
order to address global warming and climate crisis successfully. 
 Distinguished delegates, 
 
One of the key issues in terms of meeting the objectives is cli mate financing. 
Developed countries should contin ue to make progress towards th e goal of mobilising 
$100 billion by 2020 in the context of achieving Sustainable De velopment Goals. This 
year, Slovenia joined the Climate Finance Initiative and has, f o r t h e f i r s t t i m e , 
contributed to the Green Climate Fund and will continue to do s o in the following 
years. 
 
W e a l s o n e e d t o s t r e n g t h e n t h e i nter-connection of climate chan ge mitigation and 
adaptation with international deve lopment cooperation. In addit ion, we need to 
increase private sector engagement in meeting both our national and global climate 
change goals. 
 
In aiming to implement more ambitious climate action we cannot become too 
polarised, we must work on even better understanding each other in order to come to 
wishful result, that our planet and future generations need. 
 
Thank you! 