Check against delivery!

STATEMEN: T

By

At the United Nations
Climate Conference in Marrakech - COP22

Marrakech, 7-18 November 2016

Distinguished Presidents,
Mr Secretary-General,
Excellences,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Allow me first to congratulate our host Morocco for organizing this action and
implementation oriented climate conference which clearly demonstrates our

common, global and continued climate engagement.

My praise goes to all Parties that already ratified the Paris agreement with the
invitation to those still concluding their national ratifications, to do so as soon as
possible. Let me proudly announce that the Slovenian Parliament will ratify the

agreement tomorrow.

The early entry into force of the Paris agreement proves that common effort and
dedication by all Parties can turn climate book chapters quicker than previously
expected. Nevertheless, the most challenging chapters are still to be opened,

read, agreed and implemented.

Among these is by no doubt the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue as an important
opportunity to take stock of the collective effort towards the long-term
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement. Parties have to be fully ready to

engage in this dialogue with sufficient additional expertise and political will.

In this regard we should all welcome the decision by the IPCC to provide us
with a Special Report on the Impacts of Global Warming of 1.5 degrees C. It is
still not too late to reconsider the tittle and the focus of this document, aiming at

producing a Special Opportunity Strategy for 1.5 degrees C. Such document

should not mainly deal with the “loss and damage” of climate change, but

should primarily lists the benefits of climate action.

inspiration.

Let me in this context refer to the analysis and findings by Prof. Per Espen
Stoknes, a Norwegian psychologist and economist, who in his recent studies
underlines that climate change has been consistently framed mainly as:
“disaster, destruction, cost, uncertainty and Sacrifice” with two dominant
framings: “disaster and uncertainty, while what is needed is a new cultural
movement, a kind of a seismic shift away from this climate resistance. We need
to. start framing the climate change action in terms of “insurance, health,

security, preparedness, and most of all, opportunity”, concludes Prof. Stoknes.

People have to desire to live in a climate efficient Society, climate friendly

consequences,
And this is why this conference has to contribute importantly to the pro-
engaging and positive climate stories and efficient next Steps in order to realise
that the long-term temperature goal will not remain only on Paper, but will be
the result of motivated action.

I wish us all the best of luck on this challenging journey.

Thank you for your attention.



