Statement of His Excellency Laszlo Solymos, 
Minister of the Environment of the Slovak Republic, 
on behalf of the European Union 
COP22 High -level Segment, 16 November 2016, Marrakesh, Morocco 
Excellences , Distinguished guests, Delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
Our first meeting as the Parties to the Paris Agreement − CMA 1 − is a historic moment. Not only for 
all those here in this room who fought for so many years to reach a universal climate deal. But also 
for those who live with the reality of clim ate change every day. 
A new era in global climate governance has begun. Paris was a game changer in the fight against 
this unprecedented global phenomenon that is affecting lives and livelihoods in all regions of the 
world, including on this beautiful cont inent of Africa. 
The rapid entry into force of the P aris Agreement – in less than a year – demonstrates that countries 
are serious about the clean energy transiti on and that it is here to stay. We are proud that, as a 
Slovak Presidency , we had a chance to make this happen. 
Throughout the year we have seen growing evidence of confidence and delivery in outing in places 
new policies to deliver the NDCs and in aligning financial architectures 
As of today, 110 nations have ratified the deal, and the number is growing every day. 
We need to act fast to curb the dangerous trend of rising global temperatures and strengthen our 
resilience to climate impacts. 
This will help our climate but also our economies as we transform our energy systems, invest in green 
growt h and nurture innovation. 
The Agreement has also a strong social dimension. We need to continue explaining our action to 
citizens and ensure that nobody will be left behind. Otherwise we might loose the support of the 
society.  
The Agreement will contribute to achieving broader sustainable development goals to achieve 
competitive low-emission development in the context of inclusive sustainable growth and poverty 
eradication. 
We must now move at full speed from a paper agreement to an actionable pl ans. In the recent weeks 
we witnessed several new international agreements address ing greenhouse gas emissions from 
aviation, shipping and HFC gases. These are concrete actions that will contribute to achieving our 
long-term temperature reduction goal. 
 
Excellencies, Distinguished guests, Delegates, Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
We have seen and will continue to see this week, the results of the many excellent initiatives across 
the globe that are helping to reduce emissions and prepare us to deal with current an d future climate 
impacts. 
We must continue to build on the momentum and implement the Paris Agreement without delay. 