1 
 STATEMENT 
OF HIS EXCELLENCY 
MR. LÁSZLÓ SÓLYMOS, 
DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER AND M INISTER OF ENVIRONMENT 
OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
 
Dear Excellences, honourabl e ladies and gentlemen, 
let me thank the governments of Chile and Spain for inviting us here in the splendid city 
of Madrid. Your successful cooperation is an example of our str ong commitment to 
work hard and fast tow ards our common goal. 
We all have gathered here because we are aware of the urgency t o accelerate climate 
action supported by the recent, clear scientific evidence. If w e want to preserve our 
planet for the future generations, fundamental and transformati ve changes are needed in 
our key systems. They provide us with necessities such as food, energy and mobility 
and at the same time present clim ate and environmental pressure s and health impacts. 
We need to move towards a more sustainable and climate-friendly production and 
consumption patterns. Slovakia is fully aware of steps that nee d to be taken and has been 
consistently working towards their implementation. 
In the last 30 years, Slovakia has undergone radical industrial and social changes. Our 
GHG emissions decreased by roughl y 40 % since 1990. We have exp erienced changes 
in heavy industry, a large drop in energy consumption, changes in agriculture, expansion 
of transport, and development of infrastructure. We have achiev ed significant fuel 
switch from coal and oil to natural gas and renewables, and tra nsformation to less energy 
intensive industrial activities. Our electricity generation has become one of the least 
carbon-intensive, with almost 80% of electricity generated from carbon free sources. 
Recently, Slovakia has made a politically bold decision: to cease subsidies for domestic 
coal-fired electricity production by 2023. This will lead to ph asing-out of inefficient 
coal extraction and transformation of the entire coal-mining re gion, based on just 
transition approach. As a result, the future of this region wil l go hand-in-hand with smart 
and low-carbon innovations. 
In addition, we have decided to increase our 2030 reduction tar gets in EU non-emission 
trading sectors from 12% to 20%. At the same time, our Energy E fficiency and 
Renewable Energy targets up to 2030 will be also increased. 
 We believe that these efforts will help us to join other EU cou ntries in achieving 
European climate neutrality by 2050. 2 
 To support these ambitions, Slovakia has allocated additional 2 .5 billion euros for 
climate and environmental investments in the next decade. We ar e aware of our share 
of global responsibility. Therefor e , t h i s y e a r f o r t h e f i r s t t i me, Slovakia made a 
contribution of 2 million US dollars to the Green Climate Fund and plans to continue to 
do so in the coming years. 
 While in the past national climate and energy policies used to be more reactive, now it 
is time to move to proactive approach. We are already reflectin g this approach in our 
strategic planning. 
In this context we also underline the importance of Article six of the Paris Agreement. 
Proper implementation of this Ar ticle would allow countries to reduce emissions in more 
cost-effective ways. Article six could become an important pill ar for decarbonisation, 
and may facilitate investments i n technologies w ith high mitiga tion potential. 
 
Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
We have no more time to waste. Strong partnerships from global to local levels, and 
across all sectors are essential on the way to a safer and more prosperous world. 
Action speaks louder than words. We all need to unite and act i n this challenging time 
of transformation. 
Thank you. 
 