 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL STATEMENT 
BY 
H.E. ZUZANA ČAPUTOVÁ 
PRESIDENT OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) 
November 2, 2021 Glasgow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,  
COP has met several times since we agreed in Paris to reach net zero 
by mid -century. Yet the science is very clear: we are nowhere near 
this goal.  
Glasgow is make -or-break for the planet. We must double down on 
our efforts to cut emissions and mitigate the impact of the climate 
crisis. If we fail, the only thing to discuss at future COPs will be the 
irreversible devastation of our planet and its habitats. This scenario 
is just about avoidable – but so far, we seem to be failing to prevent 
it. 
The young generation understands this. In my own country, 
Slovakia , 42% of young people are very worried about the climate 
crisis. 73% think humanity has failed to look after our planet. Two 
thirds find politicians’ actions to address the climate crisis 
disappointing . A recent study carried out in a number of other 
countries has shown that 40% of young people consider not having 
children because of the climate crisis.  
It is clear: the next generation knows we are running out of time. 
And we as political leaders have run out of excuses. I am glad that as 
the European Union, we are doing what is needed: reducing our 
emissions by at least 55% by 2030, becoming the first climate -
neutral continent by 2050 and helping developing countries do the 
same.  
Slovakia’s own emission s are down by 46% compared to 1990 
levels, with methane reduced by more than half. Our electricity mix 
is already 80% low on carbon , and, from 2023, we will not use coal 
to produce elect ricity . 43% of our post -pandemic recovery funds 
will support sustainab le green transition in transport, industry or 
buildings, while not leaving the most vulnerable behind.  
We know that this alone will not prevent the worst -case scenarios. 
It takes truly global action: not just by the EU and the rest of the 
developed world, although we do shoulder a special responsibility. 
We must all do our fair share – including those states whose top 3 representatives are not in Glasgow. This also applies to climate 
finance. In 2019 to 2023 Slovakia is doubli ng our voluntary 
contribution to the Green Climate Fund.  
Excellencies,  
The carbon footprint of the planes we arrived on cannot be the only 
output from this year’s COP. We must turn the Paris commitments 
into credible delivery and real CO2 reductions. We have different 
starting points and paths for development – but we do have one 
shared goal: preserving our planet. Let’s act accordingly. Thank you. 