Mr. President,  
I am honoured to represent the Government and the People of Solomon Islands. Let me 
through you thank the Government and People of Poland and the City of Katowice for 
hosting COP24 and extend to you our warmest congratulations in your election as President. 
I trust your able leadership to progress the important work of this body. 
 
Mr. President, 
For 24 years , parties have been gathering at these COPs to negotiate and discuss climate 
change. In that same period, five islands in my country have disappeared, communities have 
been internally displaced and we are in constant mode of recovery from extreme weather 
events. As the IPCC 1.5 SR highlights, global efforts are off-track at best from the objectives 
of the Convention and the Paris Agreement.  
Mr. President , 
The Science is very clear. IPCC 1.5 SR shows the grave risks of exceeding 1.5°Celsius above 
pre-industrial levels . While it clearly outlines the gravity of the situation, it tells us that it's 
still possible to bend the curve and keep global warming to 1.5 ̊Celsius, but this will need 
urgent and far-reaching transitions in all sectors of society . I call upon the COP to welcome 
this Report and to establish a work programme on the key finding s of this Report under the 
auspices of SBSTA . 
Mr. President, 
We are committed to work with you through the Talanoa Dialogue to review and enhance 
our Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs ) to put us back on a 1.5 ̊Celsius trajectory . 
The global response to climate change must be strengthened and deepened. To this end, 
the Talanoa Dialogue must result in a formal COP decision.  
On adaptation, Solomon Islands supports the call for the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris 
Agreement and we hope to see this concluded at this COP. The need for adaptation is 
pervasive across all sectors including agriculture, fisheries, water resources, health and 
human settlements in the Solomon Islands . Consequently, there is a need for enhanced and 
predictable financing for adaptation. Whilst there is a need for new and additional climate 
finance, it is difficult to completely separate climate and development challenges in the 
 context of a very vulnerable and least developed countr y such as the Solomon Islands. 
Consequently, climate -funding mechanisms need to acknowledge the intric ate and 
inseparable linkages between climate and development issues and solutions . 
 
On Loss and Damage (L&D) , as climate change continues to define our future, we look to 
your leadership, to ensure that L&D is an integral part of the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement , and has to be treated separately from adaptation. 
 
It is essential that the Paris Agreement rule book is robust, fair, and drives ambition. It must 
ensure transparency and compliance on action and support, while adequately addressing 
adapt ation and loss and damage. We look forward to its finalization and adoption here in 
Katowice.  
 
Mr. President, 
Last week, Solomon Power and K-Water of the Republic of Korea, signed the power 
purchase agreement to progress the implementation of Tina River Hydropower Project. This 
project also benefited from the Green Climate Fund. The annual GHG emission reduction 
potential of the project (50,600 tCO 2eq) is more than twice our annual commitment in our 
NDC . However, we are not complacent with this achievemen t, the Solomon Islands 
continues to invest in renewable energy power generation , reform our forestry sector 
including the promotion of REDD+ , and pursue low carbon and resilient development 
pathway including the application of natural solutions to cope with climate change in line 
with our national development strategy.  
 
Mr. President,  
The IPCC special report on 1.5 °C stressed the importance of collective action to reduce 
emissions . We urge all countries to maximize climate action, and the global community as a 
whole should be part of the solution. In this connection , the Solomon Islands supports the 
meaningful participation of the Republic of China’s (Taiwan) in the UNFCCC process es. Let 
Taiwan help! 
 
Mr. President, 
“ Below 1.5 °C to stay alive ” remains a relevant call, and the IPCC 1.5 SR has provided the 
scientific basis of that call. We can negotiate with each other , but we cannot negotiate with 
mother earth , let us ratchet up ambition to save planet earth and humanity.  
 
Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you. 