
Madam President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
I am honored to speak on behalf of the Government and the People of Solomon 
Islands.  
 
Madam President,  
A key expectation of my country for this COP is for us to finalize the Paris 
Agreement Rule Book . The urgency to do so is underpinned by the impacts of 
climate change across the earth including the submergence of islands in my country . 
This dire situation is confirmed by the three IPCC Special Reports and the latest 
UNEP Emissions Gap Report. 
Madam President, 
The IPCC has pointed to a climate emergency . Youths, civil society groups and 
citizens have taken on board the scientific advice and are calling and protesting for 
ambitious and urgent climate change actions . Unfortunately, we as parties in these 
negotiations are stalling efforts to avert a climate change crisis . We need to do better 
than this!  
 
Madam President , 
My country strongly believes that science must be the ultimate guide of our work 
and we welcome the IPCC Special Reports and forth coming 6th IPCC Assessment 
Report . If we don’t take heed of science which is already clear and definitive then 
this multilateral process is unfortunately taking advice from fake science. 
 
Madam President , 
There is a limit to adaptation . Hence, Loss and Damage must be addressed with a 
focus on implementation through technical support and dedicated financial streams 
through the Green Climate Fund and other funding mechanisms . On the governance 
of the Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss and Damage, we support that it 
comes under the mandate of both the CMA and COP . 2 
 
Madam Presi dent, 
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement must result in overall increased ambition and action 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions . Similarly , global fossil fuel production must be 
winded down as well . Kyoto Protocol carbon units need not be transitioned to the 
Paris Agreement market mechanisms. Five year common time frame for reporting 
NDCs should be agreed upon. Robust reporting and accounting rules should be in 
place to avoid double counting, and the mechanisms must adhere to environmental 
integrity and result in sustainable development and achievement of the overall goal s 
of the Paris Agreement.  
 
Madam President, 
Finance is a key means of implementation for the Paris Agreement. The US100 
billion goal by 2020 must be honored by developed country parties. The discussion 
on long term finance must go beyond 2020 , and scaled -up financing must ensure a 
balance between adaptation and mitigation and delivered as grants. We welcome the 
recent pledges to the GCF, and call for a revised approac h to ensure more 
predic tability and flexibility through country based allocations . On GEF , it is vital 
that the allocation for the climate change focal area is increased and co-financing 
arrangements revised to reduce the burden on developing countries . 
 
Madam President, 
The nexus between ocean and climate needs to be given proper treatment in the 
UNFCCC processes. For my country, addressing ocean issues is about addressing 
climate change. 
 
Madam President, 
Although there is a sense of uncertainty, division and frustration over these 
conference halls in these two weeks , let us not forget that beyond the walls of 
IFEMA, the globe and especially our youths and children are eagerly waiting for us 
to take decisions and act upon them to save us and safeguard their future . Let us put 
our differences aside and ensure the Paris Agreement Rule Book is finalized without 
delay . 
 
Madam President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you. 