It is an honour and privilege to deliver the national statement of my 
country, Somalia, at this c rucial COP27th session in Sharm El -Sheikh, Egypt. 
I thank Egypt and President Abdel Fattah El -Sisi, as well as all other 
international partners, for bringing us all together to discuss what can only 
be describ ed as the greatest challenge facing our world today. 
All the availab le scientific evidence a cross the world clearly shows that 
temperatures and sea levels are rising, droughts and floods are increasing, 
food security is weak and c limate induced conflict over resources like water 
and livestock pasture are common, especially , in sub –Saharan Africa which 
is dealing with one of the worst droughts in modern history.  
The presence of so many leaders in this meeting today gives me confidence 
that not only is the issue of cl imate change be ing taken seriously 
internationally but that, during COP 27, genuine plans and strategies will 
be negotiated, agreed, and implemented quickly to ensure we mitigate and 
adapt to its costly destructive effects across the world. 
In 2022 , over 800 million people, majority of them from Africa are food 
insecure. In Somalia, over 7 million people cannot meet their basic food 
needs and require urgen t humanitarian assistance . We need to ask 
ourselves why are we here after 26 years? The answer is one and it is climate 
change and conflict!! 
What is evident is that there is no equity or fairness in global climate 
burden sharing because th e nations who produce the least greenhouse gas 
emissions like Somalia, pay the highest price twice. Firstly, their citizens do 
not benefit from the developed nations industrialisation and their own 
nations usually have minimal in dustrial output or capacity , and secondly, 
they seldom have the fiscal space or technology and expertise to respond 
to the effects of the changing climate which directly hampers their 
development aspirations and citizens ’ health and wellbeing.  
 In Somalia , we are most vuln erabl e to clim ate change. Climate change is a 
political, security and economic challenge for us and we are taking it very 
seriously. In this regard, we have dedicated an entir e new Ministry and 
launched a new Somalia Green Initia tive to address this matter head on.  
Today, Somalia is facing a humanitarian crisis which we are desperately 
trying to respond to because of recurrent drought. We have also had severe 
floods which have destroyed key infrastructure, prime agricultural lan d as 
well as the livelihoods of entire communities . Today’s global food and 
energy insecurity is disproportionately affecting Somalia because of the 
impact of climate change and our people’s inability to gr ow their own crops 
because of the ongoing drought. As a direct consequence, urbanisation and 
all its environmental impacts are also on the rise. This is not sustainable or 
acceptable. 
Climate m itigation and adaptation strate gies and plans need to be rapidly 
implemented in Somalia to safeguard the lives and livelihoods of our most 
vulnerable citizens. However, this requires real resources including 
accessible grant -based financing and investments in climate resilience in 
key areas including water management , infrastructure, and renewable 
energy . This is vital because many of the developing nations , and least 
developed nations like Somalia , are still struggling with the economic 
impact of the COVID -19 pandemic and national debt sustainability issues 
and they must not be left be hind. Furthermore, existing national, regional, 
and international climate early warning systems are only useful where we 
can finance early effective action to mitigate and adapt quickly . 
In Somalia, we have one of the longest coasts in the world, vast arable land, 
and we are striving to build an economically stable future which both 
benefits from our strategic location and enormous natural resource 
potential including the blue economy. However, we must take urgent 
action today to work with all our inter national partners to ensure we make 
the climate adaptation and mitigation investments that will make this a 
reality tomorrow. 
In this age of global interconnectivity and interdependence, we must not 
think in silos or developed versus developing nations because the looming 
existential climate disaster does not care for these distinctions. Climate 
Change is complex, and it is not going to magically disappear. In this 
regard, we must respond to th is single greatest challenge to humanity  
 today, together and on the firm basis of solidarity, multilateralism, and 
international cooperation. 
 
I thank you all. 
 
 
 
 
 