On the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to convey to you the greetings and well wishes of H.E Salva Kiir Mayardit, President of the Republic of South Sudan, who is unable to attend this COP because of pressing issues back home.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the people and government of Egypt for the excellent hospitality accorded to my delegation.
Mr. President,
Though with negligible emissions, The Climate Crises is worsening in South Sudan, 8 out of the 10 states in South Sudan are currently flooded and over 2 million people are internally displaced and have lost their livelihoods. Besides the flooding, droughts, excessive heat, heat waves, haphazard rain patterns have resulted in crop failure thus impacting the livelihoods of our people. Over 60% of our people are now categorized as food insecure. Therefore, lifesaving interventions are needed urgently else the prospect of climate induced displacement and climate refugees will become a new normal.
To address the impacts of climate change, environmental degradation, Biodiversity loss and pollution, South Sudan besides its ambitious 2nd Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) and its first National Adaptation Plan (NAP) and the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NABSAP), is currently developing a cost-effective nature-based solutions to address the recurring droughts, floods, land degradation, deforestation, crops failure, and biodiversity loss.
Mr. President,
Our environment requires us to change our attitudes and to embark on ambitious Nature-based solutions by actively protecting, sustainably managing and restoring degraded ecosystems that are a source of our food, water, energy, wealth, and livelihoods.
As a region most affected by the impacts of Climate Change, South Sudan would like to underscore the importance of Adaptation. A balance
between mitigation and adaptation has to be adopted. Therefore, 50% of the funds raised has to be earmarked for Adaptation Projects.
On climate finance, South Sudan believes that the 100 billion dollars that was arbitrarily set is no longer sufficient. This amount is to be revised upwards. We therefore appeal to the developed countries to fulfil their pledges and to avail the necessary funds for Adaptation projects.
On the emissions gap, it is abundantly clear that we are falling behind to limit the warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. We therefore appeal to all parties that have not submitted their NDCs to do so urgently and for the developed countries parties to drastically cut their emissions such that we keep the 1.5 degrees goal alive.
On Loss and Damage, South Sudan would like to see to it that all outstanding issues regarding the establishment of the loss and damage fund are to be resolved in this COP.
Last but not least, I wish to affirm the political will and commitment of the Government of the Republic of South Sudan in implementing the outcomes of COP27.
I thank you.