
It is with great honour that I convey to you the 
greetings and well wishes of H.E Gen. Salva Kiir 
Mayardit, President of the Republic of South Sudan. 
Although he has not been a ble to attend in -person 
due to some pressing issues, he is keenly following 
the Conference and is fully commit ted to the 
implementation of the COP26 resolutions . 
 
I would be remiss if I do not take this opportunity to 
congratulate you, Mr. President , on your election as 
President of COP26 and wish you success during your 
tenure.  
Mr. President, 
 
As you are aware, South Sudan signed and ratified the 
Paris Agreement since 2016; however, we are still in 
the process of developing the P aris Rule B ook. As we 
do so, the Climate crises is worsening globally and at 
home . For a third year in a row , nine out of the ten 
states in South Sudan are flooded . Subsequently over 
1.2 million people have lost their livelihoods or are 
living under dire conditions. 
 
Additionall y, droughts, excessive heat, heat waves, 
and irregular rain patterns a re causing crop failure 
and further destruction to the already dilapidated 
livelihood s of our people . 
 
Mr. President, 
 
As a matter of fact , it is indisputable that South 
Sudan's emission s are negligible; nevertheless, we 
submitted a very ambitious Second National ly 
Determi ned Contribution s (NDC s) and our F irst 
National Adaptation Plan (NAP) to the United Nations 
Climate C hange Conference ( UNFCCC ). 
 
As we will all agree, t he implementatio n of these 
strategies and plans will only be realised with the 
provision of climate finance by the developed countries.
 Although the 100 billion USD pledged for 
2020 was not met, it is our hope that the targeted 
funding will be met by 2023. But, given th e 
magnitude of the catastrophes brought forth by 
Climate Change, we believe that the 100 billion USD 
pledged is not sufficient to address the se pressing 
challenges. Therefore, we implore the parties to 
increase their contributions . 
 
South Sudan also recom mends that 50% of the funds 
raised be earmarked for the adaptation projects and 
that the funds be provided as grants rather than 
loans. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
On the emissions gap, we appeal to all parties that 
have not yet submitted the ir Nationally Determined 
Contribution s (NDCs) to do so immediately, so that all 
the parties are able to meet the 1.5 ̊ C goal . 
 
South Sudan commends the declaration on 
deforestation and land use and hopes tha t it will 
access funding to complement its national plan for 
planting 100 millio n trees in 10 years. 
 4 In our efforts to curb deforestation, South Sudan 
intends to generate 3000 mega watts of power from 
hydro, solar, wind, geothermal and natural gas . 
In the area of agriculture and food production , South 
Sudan plans to engage th e agriculture sector in 
introduc ing smart agriculture technology. 
 
All these ef forts, as you know , require financial 
support, capacity building and technology transfer. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
In conclusion, to succeed in our fight against climate 
change, it is the responsibility of the big emitters to 
raise their ambitions and dras tically cut their 
emissions . It is only in doing so that the world will 
reverse the dangero us trend that we are taking . 
 
We declare to all the parties that South Sudan will 
play its u tmost role in ensuring that we save the 
planet and preserve it for the future generations. 
 
I thank you Mr. President. 