The salubrious environs of the green city of Sharm El-Sheikh,
will undoubtedly inspire our discussions at COP 27 to a
successful conclusion. I sincerely thank the Government of
Egypt for your warm welcome and hospitality.
Sri Lanka being replete with biodiversity, has consistently
addressed the challenges of climate change. Let me record
the action of Sri Lanka in this regard:

Sri Lanka:
 commenced the process of reducing carbon emission
by 14.5% by 2030
 initiated Marine Spatial Planning
 recently established a Climate Office
 spearheaded the UN declaration of the 1st March as
World Sea Grass Day

Sri Lanka is:
 employing the National Policy for Conservation and
Sustainable Utilization of Mangrove Ecosystems
 implementing the Commonwealth Pilot project for
Climate and Ocean Risk Vulnerability
 leading the Commonwealth Blue Charter Action
Group on Mangrove Ecosystems and Livelihoods

Sri Lanka:
 will not increase further energy capacity via coal
power
 will phase out fossil fuel subsidies
3
 will aim for 70% of renewable energy for electricity
generation by 2030
 will join the recent Global Methane pledge made in
Washington

Yet, for climate action to be successful, wide ranging
measures to complement the UNFCC and Paris Agreement
must be pursued.
The lack of capacity is the biggest obstacle to the
implementation of Climate Action plans. Therefore, capacity
building is vital in this regard.
To overcome this obstacle, we propose to establish an
International Climate Change University in Sri Lanka, with an
ancillary institution in Maldives, that would be the first of its
type.
This seat of learning can be a transdisciplinary global center
for green and blue studies - for scientists, environmentalists,
researchers, policymakers, development practitioners, and of
course, students the world over, to interchange knowledge
transcending national and disciplinary boundaries.

The envisaged Climate Change University, will offer both
short term courses and postgraduate academic awards to
build capabilities on the mitigating and adapting to climate
change.
The University will also expedite the skills of the new
generations to deliver the political, economic, social, cultural
and digital transformations required to prevent a 1.5 degree
world.
It will be the vehicle to enlighten climate change challenges
and prospects, domestically.
The collaboration of multilateral institutions and
organizations such as the Commonwealth, World Bank and
the ADB amongst others, will be sought for the
establishment of this institution of higher learning - making it
a multi stakeholder partnership transcending - national
boundaries. It is my hope, that Sri Lanka’s proposal will
receive extensive support and endorsement from the
international community.

Since the prescriptions for addressing climate change have to
be dispensed in the global domain, we will meet again next
year, charged with the high hopes.
However the chequered implementation of previous
decisions, including those of COP 26 is extremely
disheartening.
Regrettably, the ground reality is that the fossil fuel based
industrialized countries of G7 and G20 who have been the
main promoters of green hydrogen are now backtracking to
use fossil fuel. In the last year Carbon Dioxide emissions
increased by 2bn metric tones - from 34.3bn to 36.3bn
metric tones.
Such double standards are unacceptable. Developed nations
should be giving leadership to overcome climate challenges
rather than abdicating on their responsibilities.
It is no secret that climate financing has missed the target.
It is ironic that the 100 bn dollars pledged annually, have not
available in the coffers to finance climate challenges - as
6
many developed nations deem it fit to renege on their
climate financing contributions.
These countries who are also on both sides of the Ukraine
war seem to have no qualms spending for a war which will
finally exceed $350bn. A conflict waged purportedly for
security interests of the combatants.
The only security at stake is food insecurity acerbated to
levels not experienced before the war. Many living both in
the developed and developing world are outside the scope of
three meals a day.
It is estimated that between 30 to 40 million people are
being driven into hunger, especially in Africa.
This war has also resulted in the upward spiraling cost of
living, shortages of oil and gas supplies, and it has brought
the fight against hunger to our homes.
Expectedly, it has led to the curtailing of much-required
climate finance pledged by these very same countries.
The issue we have is not of finding the party responsible for
the war, but the party that will end the war.

Why do we need this funding? It is a known fact that the
practice of colonialism transferred the rich resources of Asia
and Africa to Europe and were used to industrialize their
countries. We became poor from this plunder.
The unbridled industrialization of the developed economy is
also the root cause of climate change, the consequences of
which, we the poor countries are forced to suffer. Our
problems are augmented due to the absence of adequate
funding. Therefore, those in the South are facing a double
jeopardy - struggling to develop economically while fighting
to protect the living standards of our populations.
It is therefore imperative that the developed countries deliver
on their pledge in Glasgow - by doubling their funding.
Adding insult to injury, damages caused by extreme weather
conditions are increasing, and their impacts exceedingly
costly.
Developing countries who are the worst affected by the rise
in emissions from the industrialized world, need to be
compensated for loss and damage.

While the issue of loss and damage is now included in our
formal agenda, we have to ensure that the emitters
contribute financially to those affected. As proposed by the
Climate Vulnerable Forum, the commissioning of a Special
Report on this aspect to strengthen international awareness
for future responses, would be appropriate.
Considering the failure of the developed world in bringing
about the much discussed relief, it is proposed that before
we get to Dubai for COP 28, like minded nations should meet
at Ministerial Level to discuss the way forward on all aspects
of climate finance.
This should be followed with a meeting of the Heads of
Government of these countries on the margins of COP 28 to
display a collective frame of mind to stave off the calamity.
In conclusion, let me recall the UN Secretary-General’s recent
words “that the choice is between collective action or
collective suicide”.

The vacuum created due to inaction now requires the global
display of sustained political will by dynamic action and
constructive cooperation on the part of the like-minded
countries to prevent this catastrophe.
Let us traverse this path urgently.