Statement made by Mr. Mapa Pathirana, Additional Secretary, Ministry of 
Mahaweli Development and Environment at the High Level Segment of 23rd 
Session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Conference on Climate Change (COP23) and 13th Session of the Conference 
of Parties serving as a Meeting of Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP13), 06 -
17 November 2017 in Bonn, Germany. 
 
Mr. Presi dent of COP23 and CMP13 
Executive Secretary to the UNFCCC Secretariat 
Excellencies 
Distinguished delegates 
Ladies and gentlemen 
 
It is indeed a great pleasure and a privilege to deliver this statement on behalf of 
the Government of Democratic Socialist Re public of Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka extends 
its gratitude to the government of Morocco for a successful P residency of COP22 
while congratulating to the government of Fiji for its historic role in being the first 
Small Island State to preside the COP23 . Also, Sr i Lanka wishes to extend its 
appreciation to the government of Germany for the excellent arrangements made 
for this COP, their warm hospitality and kind reception. S ri Lanka fully associate 
with the statem ent made by Ecuador on behalf of the Group77 and China . 
 
Mr. President, Sri Lanka is a developing country, w hich is highly vulnerable to 
adverse effects of climate change. These impacts are felt on a daily basis by the 
people of Sri Lanka, due to aggravated natural disasters, losses and damages, 
which hinder the sustainable development of the country. In order to address the 
climate change adverse impacts effectively , Sri Lanka concerns the need for COP 
23 to continue in advancing the Work Program of the Paris Agreement, towards 
its completion in 2018. Further, it is needed to advance the work of design ing the 
2018 Facilitative Dialogue. Sri Lanka is ready to engage constructively in the 
textual work that is needed for the operationalization of the Paris Agreement, and stress the need for it to reflect e quity and the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different 
national circumstances. 
 
Mr. President, Sri Lanka is committed to its obligations under the Convention and 
the Paris Agreement, an d has submitted its Nationally Determined Contributions 
under the Paris Agreement. Steps have been taken at the national level , to prepare 
for the implementation of the co mmitments such as developing a Readiness 
Action P lan for the implementation of its ND Cs. Sri Lanka has also prepared its 
National Adaptation Plan, and is in the process of developing a national 
mechanism , to focus on loss and damage due to climate induced disasters , as well 
as mainstreaming climate change into the national developm ent prio rities of the 
country. 
 
Sri Lanka is committed in increasing ambition . The 2018 national budget of Sri 
Lanka is already inclusive of actions related to the implementation of NDCs on 
different sectors. While Sri Lanka takes action on its NDCs through national 
capacity in line with the country’s unconditional targets to increase ambition, Sri 
Lanka needs support for technolog y transfer, capacity building, as well as finance 
for implementing the conditional part of its NDCs.  
 
Sri Lanka also reiterates that countries’ national circumstances need to be 
reflected in the implementation of the Paris Agreement, and the diversity an d the 
nationally determined characters of NDCs need to be respected. Climate action s 
need to be inter-linked with the sustainable development initiatives of the country, 
and be integrated into the socio -economic development planning of the countr y. 
Support for developing countries that is balanced for mitigation, adaptation is 
important , as well as finance for actions to address loss and damage due to climate 
change impacts also highly significant .  
Mr. President, Sri Lanka would like to stress the n eed for all financial flows 
provided and mobilized taking into account the needs and priorities of developing 
country parties. In the face of increasing number and intensity of extreme weather 
events, there is an urgent need for effective action on the pro vision of financial 
resources, including for technology development and transfer and capacity 
building to developing countries in order for minimizing the losses and 
damages . It is also important that capacity building should be based on national 
needs and foster country -ownership; the process must be participatory as well as 
crosscutting . 
 
Adaptation is a key priority for Sri Lanka, similar to other developing countries. 
Sri Lanka considers adaptation communications as a means for enhancing 
adaptation ac tion and support and serving as a clear in put to the Global Stocktake 
as a tool to achieve the global goal on adaptation. It is important that the gui dance 
must reflect the country -driven nature of adaptation and aim to enhance the 
adaptive capacity, reduc e vulnerability and increase resilience without creating 
additional b urdens on developing countries. 
 
Finally, Mr. President, we recall the need for inclusive, gender sensitive and 
participatory climate action, which extends to the inclusion and participation of 
vulnerable communities, and multiple stakehold ers including civil society, private 
sector, youth and women, strengthening public participation. 
 
I thank you, Mr. President 
 