- At the outset, let me convey my delegation’s appreciation to the
Government and the people of the Kingdom of Morocco for hosting this
important Conference and for the warm hospitality extended to us.

- This Conference is significant as it takes place just days after the entry
into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change on the 4" of
November.

- As an island nation, Sri Lanka is deeply conscious of the impacts of Climate Change.
In fact, we are facing its adverse impacts already in the form of drougths, unprecedented
and rising in temperature, floods, unseasonal rain, and coastal erosion.

Mr. President,

- Sri Lanka became party to the Paris Climate Agreement in September
this year, and we are pleased that the world’s largest economies have
become party to this historic Agreement. Their support is needed more
than ever for countries around the world to be able to address the threat
of climate change which threatens life on this ONE Planet that all of us,
rich, poor, small or large, have, to share, and call home.

- Our commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement is our best hope to limit
rising temperatures that would otherwise have devastating
consequences for future generations.

Mr. President,

e=- Sri Lanka, for its part, has taken several initiatives. A National Climate
Change Policy, and a National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy
have been formulated; and a high-level coordination body led by the
President has been setup to align our policies with our international
commitments on environmental issues. The portfolio of Environment is
held by the President himself to ensure commitment, action and
guidance at the highest level of Government, in fact Sri Lanka has
launched several climate smart initiatives including implementing sound
sustainable energy development programs and reduction of GhG emissions
in five main sectors. I.E. Energy, Transport, Industry, Forest and Waste.
We have also recently launced a project to conserve mangrove frorests
which are seen as vital resources for mitigating the effects of climate change.
The President of Skir Lanka, even prior to the ratificiation of the Paris agreement
launched the “Sri Lanka next - Blue Green Era” program last December to demonstrate 
our commitment to the agreement.

Mr. President,

- Technology transfer from the developed to developing countries is vital
in the quest to combat Climate Change. Sri Lanka therefore adds its
voice to those of other developing nations to urge greater access to
finance including from the Green Climate Fund. Mitigation and
adaptation financing and capacity building are essential and urgent.

- Moreover, higher GHG emitters must assist developing countries
struggling to meet development needs.

- The world today is more conscious than ever that collective action is
required to combat Climate Change and meet the Sustainable 
Development Goals by 2030.

- I hope that we sustain the momentum and commitment achieved last
year through the Paris Climate Agreement and the 2030 Agenda, to stay
the course required to address the challenges before us collectively with
due diligence and responsibility.

