His Excellency King Mohammed VI, Presidents, Prime Ministers, Colleague Foreign Ministers, 
Excellencies, Delegates, Distinguished Guests, 
From the onset, I extend deepest sympathy to the Governments and people of the Bahamas, Cuba 
and in particular Haiti who were gravely affected by the recent passage of Hurricane Matthew. The 
rapid acceleration and strengthe ning of the storm prior to its arrival in Haiti wa s unprecedented and 
must be cause for alarm. As a Small Island Developing State, St. Kitts and Nevis understand s all too 
clearly our vulnerability to the ravages from the impacts of Climate Change . We there fore stand in 
solidarity with our sister islands who like us are will be forever threatene d unless we make 
determined and concerted efforts to halt the increase in greenhouse gas emissions. 
November 4th 2016 will be indelibly etched in our memories as the day that the Paris Agreement 
entered into force . As of today some 110 Nations have ratified the Agreement signalling the world’s 
strong commitment to combatting climate change. St. Kitts and Nevis is proud to have been among 
the first 15 countries to ratify the Agreement on Earth Day . As we attempt to safeguard our children 
and our children’s children, this Agreement stands as a n enduring symbol of our firm commitment 
to this meaningful cause. Mr. President, you would recall from our remarks at COP 21 that St Kitts and Nevis was 
experiencing a prolonged drought . Our Government had to resort to rationing water to preserve our 
aquifers from salt water intrusion. As we gather here in this ancient and beautiful city of Marrakech , 
our country continues to e xperience an almost three -year drought with a 55% deficit in our average 
annual rainfall since 2015. 
This is a reality of climate change . We therefore remain committed to our Nationally Determined 
Contribution s of a reduction of 22% and 35% in GHG Emission s by the years 2025 and 2030, 
respectively. Our Government has embraced solar and wind energy initiatives in an effort to reduce 
our carbon footprint. This is the case even though our country’s contribution to greenhouse gas 
emissions is insignificant. Through these means, we have achieved production of 2.5 Mega Watts of 
renewable energy . We intend shortly to add a further 10 megawatts of geothermal energy which will 
ensure that fully 100% of Nevis’ electricity needs are generated from renewables.  Our a chievements 
in solar energy to date are largely attributable to partnership with the Republic of China Taiwan.  
Taiwan is a global model in renewable energy best practice s. The Taiwanese Government has 
introduced GHG reduction legislation and has also vo luntarily announced its iNDCs to reduce 
emissions by 50% . The global goals we aim to achieve demand an all -inclusive approach and 
therefore, Mr President Taiwan should not be left out. 
What is crucial and should be addressed at this Conference is transformative climate financing. Our 
Government calls for climate f inancing that would translate into enhanced technology transfer and 
capacity building. Robust financing for Adaptation is essential for small island states to manage 
the devastating impacts of climate change . We call on all developed countries to honour their financial 
commitment and to scale up contributions to ensure that the financing committed to is achieved. 
Mr President, Marrakech is the COP of action. We must send the strong signal to our people that 
we are serious about th e future of our planet. The Paris Agreement is a first step in redefining our 
world . We must remain resolute and steadfast in fulfilling our commitments to save our planet and 
preserve our future . I am confident that our efforts here in Marrakech will bear spectacular fruit.  
Thank You 
 