1 
 Statement by Honourable Prime Minister, 
Allen Chastanet 
On the Occasion of the High Level Segment 
At the Twenty Third Climate Change 
Conference of the Parties (COP) 
In Bonn, Germany 
Thursday, November 16, 2017 
 
Your excellencies, this summer , the Caribbean 
has confronted the realities of climate change. 
We have experienced first -hand , what climate 
change looks like – Irma, José, Maria. Not only 
have these storms decimated our countries and 
our economies , but they have also left our 
citizens and governments with a feeling of fe ar 
and helplessness … that the next hurricane 
season is only nine months away … and that this 
process is far too slow for us. 
 2 
 What we have also realised is that time is against 
us. Climate change has the ability to annihilate 
my country overnight, as hurricanes are 
becoming more severe, causing ever more 
devastating impact . 
 
The fallout from these events is massive. Lives 
are l ost, infrastructure destroyed. B ig, medium 
and small businesses are hit as well … which 
translates to loss of opportunity ; losses that we 
couldn’t have imagined , but that we would have 
to suffer again and again in the future. 
 
Displacement following such climate -induced 
disasters delivers another blow to our 
communities because those who l eave are those 
who can afford to leave – community leaders, 
business people, teachers, sports coaches , and 
once they are forced to leave , it takes a long time 
for them to come back … and an e ven longer time 3 
 for the country to regain that expertise … if ever, 
as might be the case for some low lying island 
nations amongst us . 
 
The Small Island Developing States have 
understood that we have run out of time and that 
drastic action must be taken i mmediately … 
because nobody has found a way to ask for a 
pause until we , as a global community, can get 
our act together. 
 
I call on developed countries to help SIDS help 
themselves. We cannot wait till 2020 to see 
finance to deal with the emergency situation s, 
build resilience in our countries as far as 
possible , and the loss and damage that is already 
occurring .  
 
Our people have proven to be and will continue 
to be resilient . But here , on the international 4 
 level, I say to you: all it takes is a pen ; a pen to 
create the policies to prioritise the resources; a 
pen to change the protocols used to disperse 
funds; a pen to change macroeconomic targets , 
realising that we cannot invest in resilience 
witho ut putting our counties into deeper 
economic volatility.  This mean s that the 
frameworks we have under this process must be 
sensitive to the urgent needs of SIDS … and not 
simply wrapped up in bureaucracy. 
 
There is clear scientific evidence that unless 
warming is kept below 1.5°C, SIDS will face 
further intolerable and e xistential threats. This is 
why we fought for 1.5°C in the Paris Agreement. 
Already , at 2°C , impacts will be catastrophic. But 
building resilience to climate impacts that will 
occur if we al low the planet to warm to 3.2°C is 
absolutely unimaginable … because this is wh ere 
we are heading with the Paris Agreement pledges 5 
 on the table, with deadly implications for our 
nations. 
 
I call on all governments to take urgent action to 
help SIDS deal with the climate change impacts – 
the mo st pressing issue of our time … as alluded 
to by Chancellor Merkel and President Macron. I 
also want to reco gnise UK, Canada, China, Japan 
and others, for their efforts. This is not a time for 
polit ics. Despite the differences between China 
and Tiawan , and given the humanitarian impact 
of climate change, everyone deserves a voice. Let 
me remind you …climate change has no 
prejudice; it does not discriminate ; whe ther you 
are rich or poor, big or small. 
 
We, in the small islands , are doing everything we 
can to show leadership in our transition to a low 
carbon economy. We are doing our part … but 6 
 our part does not allow us to control our own 
destiny. 
 
Extraordinary times call for extraordinary 
measures. 
 
I want to acknowledge and recognise all the 
countries who are here again to show their 
solidarity and the importance they put on climate 
change. 
 
I also want to thank the leaders of the developed 
countries that took time to come here to give us 
hope. But the most important words came from 
the young man from Fiji – Timoci - where he gave 
us a very clear description of how climate change 
has affected his community and more 
importantly , his family … so attending these 
meetings is no longer sufficient. 
 7 
 SIDS and least developed countries must unite 
and use the power of our voice within the UN 
over the next two years to support individuals 
and countries that are prepared to hear the 
voices of Timoci and who appreciate the sense of 
helplessness and fear that we have as leaders as 
to what the future holds for us. 
 
Let us, collectively, show solidarity with SIDS and 
particularly vulnerable developing countries, so 
that t his island COP can go down in history as 
being the COP where the world demonstrated 
that it cared and where it was willing to do the 
right thing …no more exc uses, no more 
bureaucracy …just urgent action -NOW. 