1 COP 28 NATIONAL STATEMENT REPUBLIC OF SURINAME by H.E. CHANDRIKAPERSAD SANTOKHI President of the Republic of Suriname 02 December 2023 – Dubai - UAE Mr. Chairman, Dis.nguished Heads of Government, Secretary General of the United Na.ons, Esteemed Heads of Delega.on, Representa.ves of the UN-FCCC, Ladies and gentlemen, good day. As we convene at COP28, we must recognize the urgency of our ac.ons to combat the impacts of global warming and climate change and our responsibility to make the world more climate-friendly and resilient for future genera.ons. We are deeply concerned about the state of the climate crisis, referring to the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, which states: "The science is clear: we are on a path to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius of warming, which would have catastrophic consequences for people and planet”.  In fact, this very report notes that global temperatures have risen at an unprecedented rate, with the last decade (2011-2020) likely being the warmest in over 125,000 years. However, the report also indicates that there is s.ll .me, but only if we take immediate and dras.c measures to limit warming to 1.5 °C.  My country, Suriname, is one of the only three carbon-nega.ve countries in the world. We are commiZed to keeping it that way! Our country is also highly forested and is currently reported to have 93% forest coverage. With that comes a high-quality biodiversity, which we must protect at all costs. Our reported deforesta.on rate is less than half a tenth of a percent. As one of the eight Amazonian countries united in the Amazon Coopera.on Treaty Organiza.on (ACTO) we are commiZed to ﬁght deforesta.on by 2030 with the purpose of stopping the Amazon region from reaching the point of no return.  Together with our partner Amazonian countries we urge developed countries to meet their obliga.ons to provide and mobilize predictable and adequate support to developing countries, including development ﬁnancing, climate ﬁnancing and biodiversity conserva.on, with necessary and commensurate scope, scale and speed, as well as access to technology and its markets, and capacity building and development, as fundamental measures of interna.onal coopera.on, aiming at implemen.ng na.onal policies and programs for the sustainable development of the Amazon region. Ladies and gentlemen, we – the People and Government of Suriname - are determined to maintain this status because it is good for all of us and the world. However, as climate is a 2 global good, the adverse impacts are felt by all: by the most signiﬁcant pollu.on contributors and idyllic places, such as Suriname in the Caribbean. We, too, like our partners of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), are no.cing the eﬀects of climate change. We too experience losses and damages. Even though we house a carbon sink for the absorp.on of emissions produced elsewhere - at no cost to the polluters – our people are forced to adapt to extreme dry and wet weather events characterized mainly by droughts and ﬂoods. So, we need to adapt and we need to mi.gate proac.vely. Suriname has experienced a drought this year that was unknown to us before. The working and living condi.ons in our country have been altered, with our farmers and Indigenous and Tribal Peoples (ITPs) being two of the most vulnerable groups aﬀected due to extreme heat and water scarcity. Currently, rivers are dry or have very low water levels, making it diﬃcult to transport goods, food, and water to the communi.es living far in the interior. Adapta.on, especially Adapta.on Finance, will therefore always be a main priority for Suriname. At the same .me, we, a small developing na.on in South America with a low-lying coastal area, must also respond to the legi.mate demands of our popula.on for economic development. We must provide sound social care systems, s.mulate sustainable economic development, and project a future with opportuni.es. Therefore, we leaders must balance these aspira.ons through developing resilient economies, keeping in mind responsible and sustainable management of our ecosystems and environment.  Suriname is well aware that our recently announced oﬀshore oil amongst other required economic developments may raise ques.ons about increases in our carbon footprint. We are commiZed and conﬁdent that even with these new developments, we will remain carbon-nega.ve! We owe it to our na.on to make the best use of all our natural resources -our forests, the biodiversity, and the resources deep down in the earth- equally to beneﬁt our people and future genera.ons!  Suriname focuses on developing a Low-Carbon Emissions and Resilient Economy Strategy, taking into account a precau.onary approach to phasing down fossil fuels. Such a balanced approach is cri.cal to Suriname, given our mandate and commitment to fulﬁll SDG 7.1 (Access to Energy) and the common understanding that we will not leave anyone behind. In this regard, we urge interna.onal support in technology transfer and ﬁnancial support for a just transi.on to sustainable green energy and transporta.on op.ons, especially for rural communi.es. We are on track to transforming our economy to a low-carbon-genera.on-based produc.on and consump.on system. Nearly ﬁhy percent of our energy genera.on is currently from renewable resources. And, as we advance, we strive to do even beZer in phasing down fossil energy resources through the reform of our energy supply systems.  3 And ﬁnally, ladies and gentlemen, we must discuss and put into eﬀect climate ﬁnance systems that actually work. New ﬁnancial pacts must be developed, and pledged ﬁnancial commitments must be kept! Global climate funds must become accessible through simpliﬁed procedures to carry out our projects to improve living condi.ons and not be spent on consultancies, studies, and nearly impossible-to-aZain administra.ve procedures.  We must con.nue our eﬀorts to put the Ar.cle 6 Rule Book into prac.ce, further the prac.cal implementa.on of mi.ga.on, adapta.on, loss and damage, capacity building, and "just transi.on" ﬁnance. We, especially HFLD na.ons, need incen.ves to conserve our standing forests and biodiversity. It can never be the case that reforesta.on or silviculture is more highly valued than preserving our standing forests. Financing removals is thus not only of utmost importance to na.ons like mine but also in the interest of all of us. The payment for standing forest should or, beZer said, must have a much higher value than newly established silviculture or reforesta.on. Recalling Ar.cles 5 and 6 of the Paris Agreement, REDD+ reduc.ons and removals deserve the ﬁnancial support that was promised, but s.ll needs to be delivered. With regard to removals, Suriname underscores the IPCC conﬁrma.on that Carbon Removals are essen.al to quickly reduce global emissions. Therefore, as an HFLD developing country, Suriname highly supports ﬁnalizing the Ar.cle 6 nego.a.ons on removals. Ladies and gentlemen, addressing climate issues requires poli.cal will, commitment, in par.cular from government and business leaders, and inclusivity of everyone. It requires a change in mindset. It requires a new and beZer way of organizing our personal lives and consump.on paZerns. COP 28 must be a turning point in the ﬁght against climate change. We must work together to deliver on our commitments based on our Common But Diﬀeren.ated Responsibili.es and Respec.ve Capabili.es (CBDR-CR) and to raise our ambi.on even further.  In closing, let us not forget that there is only one planet, and that planet we inherited will remain and can con.nue without us! But we, humans, cannot do without Planet Earth! I thank you and may God bless you all! 