Sa SS tel tercste a a a ie wi

Conference of the Parties to the United Nation Framework Convention
on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Bonn, Germany, 15/16 November 2017

President of COP 23, Prime Minister of Fiji,
His Excellency, Frank Bainimarama
Executive Secretary, Ms. Patricia Espinosa
Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
Ladies and Gentlemen,

First of all, the delegation of the Republic of Suriname wishes to
extend its appreciation to the Government and People of Germany for
hosting this august meeting as well as to the Secretariat of the
UNFCCC for the excellent meeting facilities.

At the outset, also on behalf of the President, People and Government
of Suriname, my Delegation wishes to join previous speakers in
expressing our deepest sympathy with the families of the victims of
the recent natural disasters.

The non-discriminatory nature of the hurricanes, earthquakes and
forest fires only confirms that a concerted approach, as foreseen in
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, is the most suitable way
forward.

Mister President,

Located in South America and part of the Amazon region, Suriname is
the most Amazonian country of the Amazon. Because of its forest
cover of over 93%, Suriname has been classified by the World Bank
as the country with the highest forest cover in the world.

Our forests currently store approximately 219 tons of carbon per
hectare. The forests of Suriname stores 12 gigatons of forest carbon
per year. My small country was already contributing to climate change
mitiaation even hefore tha avictanrn nf the rw ln

Sencar A ee a A i oe ea eee

Nature Reserve, comprising 1.6 million hectares of primary tropical
forest, has been placed on the world heritage list.

But at the same time, despite its significant contribution to the world
environment, Suriname is also on the Top10 most endangered
countries in the world due to sea level rise as a result of Global
Warming. The consequences of global warming has a direct health
effect and the health of this and our future generations depends on
the actions we take now!

We have initiated a mangrove rehabilitation project to protect our low-
lying coastline.

We are obliged to assess the necessity for sea defence options to
protect our coastal area where we produce our food and where the
majority of our people live. Scarce resources are being diverted
from health, education and social inclusion programs, to
address these urgent climate change challenges that are not
of our making.

On another note, small-scale gold mining and logging also present
serious challenges to our pursuit for sustainable development in
harmony with nature. Suriname’s economy relies heavily on the
extraction of gold and oil, accounting for approximately 85% of
exports and 27% of Government’s revenues. The significant
drop in international prices for these commodities and the
cessation of bauxite and alumina production in Suriname have
drastically reduced revenues and national income over the
years. Nonetheless, Suriname continues to be classified as a
middle-income country by international monetary institutions,
which hampers our access to concessional loans and creates
unnecessary barriers to achieve the Sustainable Development

Goals.

EE EEE NEE OEE ILEENG BREN IIANN ME REIS FPeOMUciit UF OUTITdie tO Ine

President of the COP 23 and | quote:

“I am very proud of the contribution we have made to environmental
sustainability in Suriname, and under my stewardship, Suriname is
committed to maintain its leadership position as one of the world’s
most carbon negative countries. | invite you, to join our efforts to cap
our forest cover at 93%.

It is a commitment we make as a nation, meaning in fact an
undertaking that will require science a technology, expertise,
technical support, and above all, the necessary financial resources
and the pollical will of the global community in a durable
Partnership”.

It is of great importance for the benefit of all mankind to secure the
sustainability of our forests and its rich biodiversity. In this regard, it
is our firm opinion that the international community has a moral
obligation towards Suriname for its contribution to the mitigation of
climate change. Financial support and technical assistance in the
development of sustainable forest management and climate change
resilience will substantially facilitate our efforts.

I thank you.

