My two keywords here today are urgency and opportunity. Urgency based on 
science and numerous alarming IPCC reports . Opportunity based on the new 
jobs and growth that the green transition brings. 
Sweden is an i nspiring example of this. 
Since 1990, our emissions have been cut by 37 percent . At the same time, our 
economy has doubled. This is due to: 

- An energy mix almost free from fossil fuels – with nuclear energy, hydro 
and wind as important pillars . 
 
- But also an early and high tax on CO2 . 
 
- And: Innovative Swedish businesses. 

Swedish emissions per capita are now the lowest in the EU together with 
Portugal . The transition is exponential in sectors as steel, transport and heavy 
industry. The steel industry alone accounts for some 8 percent of global 
emissions. In 2021 Swedish industry produced the first fossil- free steel ready 
for delivery. And three of the world’s leading climate tech companies are 
Swedish – all present here at COP28. 
The green transition is not only necessary to save the planet. It is also vital for 
our competitiveness . 
Reaching net zero by mid -century requires a rapid and complete phase -out of 
fossil fuels in electricity - and heat production. To succeed it is crucial to 
increase production in all fossil- free sources , nuclear power included. Sweden 
is now taking concrete steps towards new nuclear capacity , and I am happy to 
stand side by side with likeminded countries here at COP28.  
Let me also stress the importance of what is taking place at the EU level – as we 
are laying the ground for a green revolution with Fit for 55. The EU has not only 
put in place ambitious targets for 2030 . We have also decided on binding legislation 
that will reduce emissions by 57 per cent. This will define and 
incentivise national action across our 27 Member States . It means that 450 
million Europeans will adapt to a green transition. 
An enhanced and expanded emission trading system will put a cap on nearly all 
carbon emissions. The EU can now show the rest of the world ho w policies to 
reduce emissions can be combined with increased growth and welfare.  
Climate action requires global solutions. We might have different timelines and 
pathways to net- zero. But our common goals are clearly defined in the Paris 
Agreement. Limit temperature increases to 1.5 degrees , build more resilient 
societies – and transform financial flows in support of those goals . 
Here at COP28, we need to agree on an ambitious outcome of the Global 
Stocktake and the phase- out of fossil fuels. We need to send a strong call to all 
Parties – G20 countries in particular – to come forward with new NDCs ahead of 
COP30 that are economy -wide, cover all gases and cut emissions faster in line 
with 1 .5 degrees . 
We look forward to adopting the new framework for the Global G oal on 
Adaptation. We will stand with the most vulnerable to operationali se the funding 
arrangements and the fund for responding to loss and damage. And we want to 
establish a space to accelerate the transition of financial flows. 
To the UAE Presidency – thank you for hosting us. 
To all Parties – , let COP28 be the COP where we unite, act and deliver.  
To all civil society actors and businesses – we look forward to hearing your 
voices, inspiring us to do more, faster, together. 
Let us embrace the urgency of climate action – but also the opportunities . 
Thank you. 