Excellencies,
Natural disasters are pestering our planet, more and more
frequently, and more and more violently.
Just recently, we have seen violent flooding here in Spain.
In Venice. In Kenya and all over East Africa where
hundreds of people tragically have lost their lives. The past
year hurricanes have demolished the Bahamas, and
Mozambique, and historic wildfires have ravaged California
and Australia – and - not least -marine heatwaves have
killed coral reefs and life under water.
We see what´s happening.
We hear the calls for action, from the youth movement, and
from all the sectors of society that committed to action at
the UN Climate Action Summit. And from the scientists.
Dear world. We must act on science and facts. Anything
else would be complete irresponsibility, or total immorality.
It´s really not that difficult. Lets just understand one simple
fact: getting out of fossil fuels is not a sacrifice; it´s the
salvation of our planet, and of people living here now, and
of all future generations.
The time to act is now. I am going to outline four key areas
where I expect us all to act:
First, we need to enhance ambition. Our current pledges are
far from sufficient, they will lead us to at least three degrees,
not 2 or 1,5 .
Secondly, Article 6 can play a key role to reduce global
emissions. It is essential that the rules we decide on ensure
the highest possible integrity. We simply cannot afford to
register emissions reduction on paper, if they are doublecounted
and not reduced in reality.
Thirdly, we must respond to climate change in a more
integrated way and find synergies between reducing
emissions, protecting biodiversity and improving ocean
health. This should be reflected in the decisions at this Blue
COP.
Lastly, as we move from words to action, it is time to
incorporate the Paris goals into our national laws, policies
and programs. In Sweden we have begun our journey with a
climate law obliging us to reach net-zero emissions by 2045
at the latest. And Sweden will continue supporting
developing countries and we have doubled our contribution
to the Green Climate Fund.
The world and our very own children are calling upon us to
act. Noone can do it alone. But if we all work together we
can do it. Let this be the Cop where leaders show the world
we are determined to do it here, now, and without any
hesitation. Lets just do it!.