 
Excellences, ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen 
The effects of climate change are already here. People see them with 
their own eyes, live the effect of them around the world. In Sweden we 
experienced an extremely hot summer this year, with drought and violent 
forest fires in the Arctic region, like neve r before. We watch the news 
and we see wildfires in California, hurricanes hitting the Caribbean´s and 
the Pacific, violent torrential rains in Japan and droughts in Africa and 
we can no longer ignore the disastrous consequences for this planet an d 
all fut ure generations if we do not take action now. 
Some people say we should not talk about the enormous threat of 
climate change because then people might lose hope. But to quote Greta 
Thunberg, a remarkable 15 -year old climate activist from Sweden, the 
world does not need hope. It needs action. But when we take action – 
hope is everywhere. 
The action that is needed here in Katowice is deciding on a robust, 
detailed, clear and stable Rulebook to the Paris agreement. A transparent 
Rulebook that creates comparab ility and predictability and also enables 
necessary flexibility and crucially - increased ambition over time. 
Every school child today knows about science. The scientific knowledge 
is more precise than ever. The IPCC 1.5 -degree report provides 
abundant c larity as to the need for action. And it does not leave room 
for hesitation. So let´s face the facts. A national determined system, the beating heart of 
the Paris Agreement, requires r esponsible action by everyone. And 
current pledges are sadly far from su fficient. Time is not just limited, we 
are on the verge here. This is it. It´s time to step up. 
Our leadership is called for by our children. We need to show a 
predictable pathway towards low carbon economies. Our constituencies 
need and demand it, and lu ckily with business increasingly echoing those 
sentiments. 
Dialogue between states is key, but dialogue between other parts of 
society is needed as well. Sweden has a proud tradition to uphold a 
dialogue between business, unions, and government. 
With the initiative “Fossil free Sweden” we enable dialogue between 
government on all levels, industry, and stakeholders. It has resulted in 
the industries themselves developing concrete roadmaps for fossil free 
competitiveness for many sectors. F rom the steel, ce ment and aviation 
industry, to the forest and retail sector as well as many more. This shows 
action is possible. 
Low carbon transition offers new opportunities for investments, jobs 
and better lives. Swedish economy has grown substantially, by more than 
60 percent, while our emissions are down more than 25 per cent since 
the early 1990s. 
We want to, and look forward to , continue sharing our experience on 
policies, financing and technology with partners. We believe developed countries
 must lead the first step of a global 
transition, encouraging and supporting others to move forward. We also 
know climate change hits some countries and regions harder than other. 
The least developed countries and small island states face very real, and 
pressing danger. Developed countries must lead the first steps of a global 
transition, encouraging and supporting others to move forward. 
Therefore Sweden is proud to be one of the largest per capita providers 
of climate financ e globally. I am also happy that we here in Katowice 
have been able to announce an additional contribution for 2018 to the 
Adaptation Fund and the Least Developed Countries Fund of 50 million 
Swedish kronor each. This is in addition to the contributions an nounced 
at COP23. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
We warmly welcome the initiative from United Nations Secretary 
General to organize the Climate Summit in 2019. The summit will serve 
as an important complement to the UNFCCC -process to mobilize 
political willingness to act and to demonstrate transformative action. 
We need action. The c ost of inaction is monumental, impossible to 
quantify. Nations are disappearing, ecological systems are being damaged 
beyond repair. The difference between 2 degrees and 1.5 is vast, w e must 
pursue the most ambitious outcome.  And o ur duty as leaders is to ensure that the transition benefits all. 
Inclusive approach is part of the Paris and agenda 2030 spirit. It requires 
full engagement from all stakeholders. It requires rules. 
Rules that requ ires all states to take action . Because when there is action 
- as Greta say, the 15 -year old that demands to have the right to a safe 
future without a climate collapse – when there is action, there is hope. 
And there is hope everywhere.  
 