 
 
 
 
Swedish n ational statement COP 22 16 November Marrakesh 
 
Dear Ministers, Excellences, Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
In less than a year after COP21 we celebrate the entry 
into force of the Paris agreement. That is a big 
success! Sweden has ratified and is a proud party to 
the agreement that is undoubtedly one of the most 
important of our time. 
 
The Paris agreement is indeed ambitious, but we can 
make it ! 
 
We have to make it and we will make it. 
 
What makes me confident are the changes we already 
see. Renewable energy is already competitive and 
electric cars will be within short. Many solutions are 
underway. No person or country can stop the New 
Climate Economy as the benefits are so large. 
 
Colleagues, as politicians we have to remove the 
obstacles for the new solutions and create the right 
incentives. The reward for the global society will be 
enormous.  
 
 
2016 -11-16 
 
Utrikesdepartementet 
Sverige 
 
 
 
   
 2 
 
*** 
 
Here in Marrakesh we focus on implementation and 
the priorities for Sweden are threefold:  
 
1. Keep the 1.5 degree objectives within reach. Even 
if all our announced commitments are 
implemented the warming is estimated to 
become about three degrees. The ambition cycle 
and increased mitig ation ambition will be 
absolutely crucial for the years to come. 
 
2. Develop the Paris rule book. An enhanced 
transparency system with aligned accounting 
rules that allows us to track collective efforts and 
achievements towards the overall targets must be 
a key feature. Parties and societies need to get 
clear and comparable information to ensure that 
we continue to build trust in the Paris agreement . 
 
3. Keep the balance in the Paris agreement and 
support those who need assistance in building 
capacity and develop their national strategies for 
cutting emissions and tackl ing the effects of 
climate change. The Paris agreement and Agenda 
2030 are in this respect complementary and 
mutually reinforcing. 
 
*** 
 
Sweden is certainly not waiting. 
 
After Paris a broad majority of parties in the Swedish 
parliament has agreed to a proposal for a new climate 
fram ework with tougher targets. We ai m to be climate  
 3 
neutral by 2045 and cut emissions from transport by 
70% wit hin the coming 14 years. A robust new climate 
framework and climate law will be presented by the 
government early next year. 
 
We also take responsibility for supporting countries in 
need. As the biggest donor per capita to the Green 
Climate Fund and the G lobal Environmental Facility 
Sweden is fully committed towards delivering our part 
of the 100 billion USD. It is an important promise, 
not least for supporting climate adaptation. However, 
we must not forget the bigger picture. Many trillions 
will need to be invested in key sectors over the coming 
years to support global development. Greening those 
investments will be the key challenge 
 
Before COP21, Sweden pledged to nearly double its 
contributions to multilateral climate finance in 2016, 
compared to 2015. I am happy to be able to conclude 
that we have reached, and even exceeded that goal. 
In addition to our pledge in Paris 2015, I am today 
proud to announce new contributions of 
approximately 27 million USD for multilateral clima te 
finance, including support to the Adaptation Fund, 
the Least Developed Countries Fund and the new 
Capacity Building Initiative for Transparency. 
 
 
*** 
Colleagues, 
 
It is now time for action and implementation. 
Pursuing efforts towards 1.5 degrees will demand 
more from all of us. In Paris we all decided to do more 
and to do it together. We must hold on to that spirit 
of cooperation.  