1 (3) 
 
 Svenskt nationellt anförande – UNFCCC COP23 i Bonn 
Excellences , ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, 
I am torn between hope and despair. 
Despair, when I think about the unprecedented threat of climate 
change. About its immense consequences for ecosystems and many millions of people all around the world. About deadly heat waves, home -wrecking hurricanes, temperature records, droughts and cor al 
bleaching. 
Hope, when I think about solutions currently under way and the opportunities they offer. Solutions that combat poverty and 
inequality, promote economic development and curb global 
warming, such as affordable solar energy instead of coal, and clean 
transport solutions instead of dirty diesel. 
I believe we can make these hopes become a reality. But this won’t 
happen by itself. We need to raise our ambitions further to support 
the solutions. 
*** 
Someone wondered what happened last night in Swe den. 
Let me tell you what has really happened in Sweden . 
Yesterday we ratified the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. 
This year and over the last three years, we have more than doubled our climate and environment investments. 
We passed a new Climate Act and adopted new climate objectives, 
with broad political support. Based on current population scenarios , 
these objectives mean that emissions in Sweden will be one tonne 2 (3) 
 
 per capita by 2045 at the latest. Sweden will deliver emission cuts 
that go far be yond our EU commitment in the Paris Agreement, and 
the Kyoto Protocol. 
Coal has no future if we are to meet the Paris goals. Sweden has in 
principle phased out coal from the energy system. Sweden’s steel 
industry is now aiming to switch from coal to hydrogen in Swedish 
steel production. This is progress that no one had anticipated just a 
few years ago. If fossil -free steel production is possible, I see no 
problems that cannot be solved.  
We are aiming higher. We want our hopes to become reality. 
*** 
In Paris we achieved a delicate balance. We must stand by this and 
focus on implementation, rather than spending time on renegotiating. Everyone needs to contribute and no major emitter 
should be allowed to shirk its responsibiliti es. 
Substantial progress is needed here in Bonn. 
Our top priorities include an enhanced transparency system and a 
robust global stocktake that triggers increased ambitions to keep the 
1.5 degree target within reach. The facilitative dialogue will be crucial 
and will enable us to take stock of our efforts. Let’s not miss this 
opportunity. Science, and the upcoming IPCC report on the 1.5 
target, must have a central role in informing the dialogue. 
My Government is a feminist Government. We naturally support the adoption of a gender action plan. 
*** 
Financing will be key to delivering on our goals. Sweden is already 
the largest per capita donor to the Green Climate Fund, the 3 (3) 
 
 Adaptation Fund and the Global Environment Facility, but we are 
raising our ambition. Today, I am pleased to announce renewed 
support to the Adaptation Fund and the Least Developed Countries Fund (subject to parliamentary approval). 
Public funds will never be sufficient. We need to raise ambitions 
and scale up financing from the private sector as well. Innovative 
financing, such as guarantees, and policy support must increase. My 
Government is working on partnerships with financial institutions. Just recently, for example, we proposed regulations that would force our national pension fund s to be guided not only by financial 
returns, but also by international commitments, such as the Paris Agreement. 
*** 
Sweden is raising the ambitions and moves beyond existing 
commitments. 
We all need to do more and move beyond committments . 
NOW. 
Our ho pes can become a reality. 
 