
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan it is a great 
honor for me to address this gathering . 
 
Tajikistan, as a mountainous landlocked country, forms about sixty 
percent of the wat er resources of Central Asia, and is the main location of 
regions’ glaciers , where the bulk of the regi on's water resources are 
formed , thus playing an important role in ensuring sustainable 
development in the entire Central Asian region. 
 
We over the recent years observe rapid melting of glaciers , dramatic 
reduction of water resources , increase of mudflows and floods , droughts 
and other natural disasters induced by climate change . This situation has 
been causing a significant damage to our national economy and severely 
undermines our efforts towards achieving sustainable development . 
 
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the proposal of the 
President of the Republic of Tajikistan to proclaim 2025 as the 
International Year for Glaciers Preservation . 
 
Tajikistan repeatedly appeals international community to create an 
International Fund for Glaciers Preservation , through which we could 
mobilize efforts and resources for practical steps to preserve glaciers - the 
most important source of fresh water in Central Asia . 
 
 Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
The contribution of our country in terms of GHG emissions is minimal. 
Nevertheless , Tajikistan in its updated version of the Nationally 
Determined Contribution undertook enhanced commitment to reduce 
GHG emissions within 60-70%, and within 50-60% with significant 
attraction of international assistance . 
 
This will mainly be achieved through the development of hydropower 
resources, the potential of which is enormous in the country. With the 
global community's new aspirations to achieve net zero ambition , we 
commit to doubling our hydroelectric capacity by 2050.  
 
Addi tionally, to reduce emissions from the transport sector, we intend to 
accelerate the transformation of the country’s urban mobility , 
implement afforestation programs to increasing the carbon -capturing 
capacity of Tajikistan . 
 
Of course, without the necessary resources, i.e. finance, capacity 
building and technology transfer , the achievement of the assigned tasks 
can take many years. Therefore, for many developing countries, the 
proactive assistance of the international community is in great demand. 
 
Given the national circumstances, Tajikistan would like to urge for more 
focus on adaptation measures, enhanced accessibilit y and clear delivery 
plan for climate finance for developing countries. 
 
Distinguished delegates , 
 
Tajikistan looks forward to working with the Presidency and our 
development partners to address urgent and long -term issues in a 
collaborative manner to achieve concrete and tangible results. 
 
Thank you very much ! 