1  
 
 
 
 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TAZANIA 
 
STATE MENT BY HON. JANUARY Y. MAKAMBA (MP), 
MINISTER OF UNION MATTERS AND ENVIRONMENT, VICE 
PRESIDENT’S OFFICE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA AT 
THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE UNITED NATION S 
CLIMAT E CONFERENC E (COP22 /CMP12 ) MARRAKECH , 
MOROCCO , 16TH 
NOVEMBER , 2016,   
Your Majesty King Mohammed the VI, King of the Kingdom 
of Morroco, 
Your Exce llency , Mr. Salaheddine Mezouar, Minister of 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Morocco and President of 
COP 22/CMP 12 and CMA1; 
Ms. Patricia Espinosa , Executiv e Secretary of Unite d 
Nation s Framewor k Convent ion on Climate Change ; 
Exce llences , Head s of Delegat ions; 
 
 
Distinguishe d 
Participants ; Ladies and 
Gent lemen. 
2  
Allow me to convey warm and fraternal greetings from H.E. Dr. 
John Pombe Joseph Magufuli, President of th e United Republic of 
Tanzania. Let me thank the Government and People of Morocco 
for successfully organizing this COP 22 and for the hospitality 
extended to my delegation since our arrival . We also the 
UNFCCC Secretariat for the excellent facilities put at our disposal 
for this Conference.  
 
Mr. President, 
We strongly welcome the entry into force of the Paris Agreement and 
commend all Parties that have ratified the same.  Tanzania is in the 
final process of ratification. This is indeed a historical COP as we are 
witnessing unprecedented solidarity of the g lobal community in a 
pace that was never seen before . It would be very remiss of me not 
to congratulate France for its successful and remarkable Presidency 
of COP 21. We must now match the speed of ratification to concrete 
actions toward actual implementat ion of Paris Agreement. 
 
Mr. President ; 3 The challenge s of climate chang e to my country like in many other 
African countries are real and canno t be over emphasized . In many 
cases climate change threatens the very existence and survival of the 
our farmers, livestock keepers, fishermen, our old men and women, 
children and youth, our small petty traders, manufacturing and the 
entire utilities we always depend on for our development. 
Understanding our vulnerabilities, we have been at the forefront to 
work together to address this c hallenge while recognizing th e 
historical perspective , to be able to forge a fair, balanced but 
differentiated approach.  
At the national level, we have been taking ambitious steps to address 
climate change . Just before the Paris Conference we submitted our 
Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs), which reflect 
our commitment and determination to collaborate w ith international 
community in addressing this challenge .  Through our INDCs, we 
intend to reduce greenhouse gas emissions economy wide in the 
context of sustainable development between 10 - 20% by 2030 
relative to the business as usual scenario . This is a remarkable 
contribution in our part taking into account that our per capita 
emissions are less that 1 tone per capita annually.  4 As indicated in our INDCs, we expect the needed techno logical and 
financial suppo rt to the tune of USD 60 billion by 2030 for mitigation 
and USD 500 million USD annually for adaptation  will be availed to 
be able to meet our contributions and to pursu e the development 
trajectory we want . 
With 48.1 million hectares of forested land, we have a n estimated total 
of 9.032 trillion tones of carbo n stock, makin g the country a net 
carbo n sink. We are commi tted to continuous ly conserv e these 
biomass assets for the benefi t of the countr y  and local commun ities 
and at the same time support th e global effort s to address mitigation 
provided the mechanisms that have been put in place ensure that it's 
the countries and communities that are custodian of these forests that 
benefit rather than the multinational foreign companies . 
We have launched the enhanced natio nal wide tree planting campaign 
which is po ised to increase our sequestration potential. However, a 
massive mobilization of resources is required to enable us attain this 
goal and for the sake of implementation of the Paris agreement the 
resources for im plementing this must be provided by the 
international community. 
 5 Mr. President ; 
Our development plan set s our national priority to explore and 
use its existing resource to move to a middle income country by 
2025. We know it is possible and we are geared toward this 
vision in all aspects.  The challenge we face like many other 
LDCs is how we can address climate change and remain focused 
on our agenda. The costs of adaptation and the costs of 
participating effectively in mitigation need serious international 
support as agreed in Paris. It is important that here in Marrakesh 
we unlock the way and means to achieve that.  Money seems to 
be out there but the beaurocratic and procedural processes we 
are putting in place in a ll our funds such as the GCF , LDCF, AF 
and GEF are making it impossible to access these resources in 
time and at the quantities that can make a paradigm shift in 
terms of resilience and low emission development pathways. We 
need to change this. We can n ot afford a situation whereby the 
money is there but we are making it impossible to access. 
I wish to once again pledge Tanzania’s readiness to work with the 
international community  to address the challenges of climate 
change in in the context of the Paris agreement within the agreed 6 principles and obligations as we strive to keep the global temperature 
well below two degrees for our very survival and that of the 
generations to co me.  
 
Your Majesty, Excellencies, Distingished Guests, Ladies and 
Gentlemen, 
 
 
I thank you for your kind attention. 