 
Statement by H.E. General Surasak Karnjanarat 
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of the Kingdom of Thailand 
At the High -Level Segment of the 23rd Session of Conference of the Parties (COP23 ), 
the 13th Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
(CMP13 ) and the 2nd part of the 1st Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA1 .2) 15 -16 November 2017, Bonn , Germany  
 
--------------------------------- 
Mr . President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates , 
Ladies and gentlemen,  
1. First of all, Thailand would like to congratulate the Republic of Fiji for 
your leadership as the COP 23 presidency and would also like to express 
our gratitude for the Federal Government of Germany and the city of 
Bonn for the excellent arrangement and warm hospitality in hosting this 
COP .  
Mr . President, 
2. The Royal Thai Government reaffirms our commitment to work with 
the global community in the effort s against climate change and to 
implement the Paris Agreement .  
3. We have implemented our NAMA action plan and achiev ed a reduction 
of 11 percent from BAU in 2015 . This achievement proves that we are on 
strong track to achieve our voluntary NAMA pledge and serves as 
an important foundation for our continued efforts under the Paris 
Agreement .  
 
 
2 
 4. To implement the Paris Agreement, the Government attaches great 
importance to practical climate actions, and we approved Thailand ’s NDC 
mitigation roadmap in May 2017 . The roadmap includes measures in 
many sectors such as energy , transport, industry , and waste, which 
provides guidance for related sectors to formulate their own corresponding 
action plans to achieve our NDC target .  
5. On adaptation, our National Adaptation Plan (NAP ) is expect ed to be 
complete d in 2018 . This NAP will guide the implementation of our 
adaptation NDC in various sector s, including water management , 
agriculture , food security , tourism , public health, natural resource s 
management, human settlement and security . 
6. Thailand expects that this COP will send a strong signal to the global 
community that countries are doing their best to ensure that the Paris 
Agreement Implementation Guidelines are on track for conclusion at COP 
24. We must continue to work in the spirit of inclusiveness, transparency 
and solidarity and ensure a comprehensive and balanced progress and 
outcome . 
7. We would like to emphasize once again the urgent need to enhance the 
pre -2020 ambition, including the ratification of the Doha Amendment . 
 
 
 
 
3 
 Mr . President, 
8. Thailand will continue to work with all Parties and stakeholders to 
tackle the threat of climate change and promote the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development . We emphasize the need to 
build a strong partnership at all levels and calls for swift actions by all to 
fight this common challenge together .  
9. Thank you . 