 
  
Statement by H.E. General Surasak Karnjanarat 
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of the Kingdom of Thailand 
On behalf of the Group of 77 and China 
At the Joint High -Level Segment of the 22nd Session of Conference of the Parties 
(COP22 ), the 12th Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP12) and the 1st Session of the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA1) 
 16 November 2016, Marrakec h, Morocco  
--------------------------------- 
Mr. President, 
1. I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
2. We would like to express our full support to you and thank for your leadership . 
3. The Group welco mes the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement which 
signifies the high level of political commitment the global communi ty attaches to 
climate change . We must maintain this momentu m.  
4. COP22 is the “COP for action”. We need enhance d actions and a mbitions, on both 
mitigation and adaptation, as well as support. 
Mr. President,  
5. Countries of the Group of 77 and China have been the most affected by the adverse 
impacts of climate change . Yet we are taking ambitious measures in line with our 
capacitie s. Developed countries must support our endeavors . 
6. The Group would like to highlight the following points on the implementation phase 
of the Paris Agreement, as applicable to Par ties that ratify the Agreement : 
7. First, the delicate balance achieved in Paris must be preserved. It is crucial to ensure 
transparency, inclusiveness, Party -driven process, and balance of all issues and across 
all work plans of subsidiary bodies. We must reaffirm the provisions and principles of 
the Convention , in particular , equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and 
respective capabilities as reflected in the Paris Agreement . 
 
 -2- 
 
8. Second, there is an urgent need to enhance the pre -2020 ambition, includin g the 
expeditious ratification of the Doha A mendment to t he Kyoto Protocol to provide a 
strong basis for post -2020 efforts under the Paris Agreement. 
9. Third , capacity -building support for climate action is critical for developing countries 
and should be based on and responsive to national needs, foster countr y ownership, 
participatory, and cross -cutting. 
10. Fourth , developing countries require additional, adequate, predictable and 
sustainable climate financing to transform our economies to climate resilience and low 
greenhouse gas emissions. The Group notes the efforts by developed countries for the 
formulation of a roadmap to achieve the floor of 100 billion USD per year by 2020 .   
We reiterate our call for developed country Parties to enhance ambition on the provisi on 
and mobilization of support , and to achieve a balance between adaptation and mitigation 
finance , including by setting a target to quadruple resources allocated to adaptation from 
public and grant -based sources by 2020 . 
11. Fifth, technology development and transfer is also vital. Technology m echanism 
needs to be enhanced to support the rapid transfer of technologies from developed 
countries to de veloping countries, helping them to innovate and develop their own 
technologies. C oncrete enhanced actions on technology development and transfer and 
strengthening of the linkages between the technology mechanism and the financ ial 
mechanism is required. 
12. Direct access of all developing country parties of the convention and Paris 
Agreement to means of implementation including finance, technology trans fer and 
capacity building provided by multilateral supporting mechanism should be simplified 
and granted. 
13. For us, adaptation remains a priority. Developing countries are the least con tributors 
to climate change, however, we are the most affected . In or der to increase adaptive 
capacity and resilience, we require the implementation of guarantees of the Paris 
Agreement in terms of the means of impl ementation. 
14. The Group remains ever committed to addressing climate change and looks forward 
to a clear an d strong outcome of COP22. 
I thank you Mr. President.  
 