Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates , 
1. First of all, Thailand would like to congratulate the 
Government of the Republic of Poland for your leadership 
as COP 24 Presidency . We also express our gratit ude to the 
city authorities and people of Katowice for your warm 
hospitality .  
Mr. President , 
2. COP 24 is another important milestone in the 
global climate efforts to finaliz e the Paris Agreement Work 
Programme . The Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 
degree Celsius by IPCC clearly states that half a degree 
difference in the global average temperature would lead to a 
much worse climate impact. In this context, we stress the 
need to enhance the pre-2020 ambition, including the entry 
into force of the Doha Amendment.  
 3. Thailand has successfully implemented energy 
measures and achieved a greenhouse gas emission reduction 
of approximately 12 percent in 2016 , which is on a strong 
track to fulfill our NAMA pledge of 7 percent from BAU  by 
2020 . 
Mr. President, 
4. Since confirming Thailand’s NDC at COP 21 by 
our Prime Minister, climate actions have been integrated 
into the National Strategy , National Reform Plans, 12th 
National Economic and Social Development Plan, as well as 
mainstreamed into sectoral plans and strategies . 
5. Last year, at COP 23, I have the honor to announce 
the Cabinet approval of Thailand’s NDC Roadmap on 
Mitigation 2021 -2030 .  
6. This year, I am pleased to inform you the 
finalization of our NDC Sectoral Actio n Plans on Mitigation 
in energy, transport, industry and waste, which clearly 
outline strategies, measures, activities and yearly emission -
reduction target in each sector.  
 7. On adaptation, Thailand has adopted its first 
National Adaptation Plan as a practical guidance to 
mainstream adaptation into water , agriculture , tourism, 
health, natural resource s and human settlement sectors . 
Mr. President, 
8. Thailand reaffirms our strong commitment to work 
with all Parties to ensure the adoption of a comprehensive, 
balance d and practical Paris Agreement Work Programme 
to enhance actions on mitigation, adaptation and means of 
implementation . We stress the needs of developing countries 
in financial, technological and capacity -building support to 
enable their enhanced contributions. 
9. Lastly, Thailand will constructively work with all 
partners toward a successful implement ation of the Paris 
Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development for better lives of our future generations . 
10. Thank you. 