Sa”
Country Statement
By
The Government of Timor-Leste

Delivered by His Excellency Mr. Constancio da Conceigao Pinto, Minister of
Commerce, Industry and Environment, to the High Level Segment

COP 22 and MOP12 in Marrakesh, Morocco
16 November 2016

Mr. President, Honorable Heads of States and Governments,
Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen,

It is a great honor to be here representing people and the Government of Timor-Leste at this
224 session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and 12!" session of the
Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol. | would also like to express my heartfelt
gratitude to the Government and people of Morocco for the kind hospitality in hosting this
important International Conference in this beautiful city of Marrakech. Let me also
congratulate and welcome the new Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, Madam Patricia
Espinosa. Thank you for your leadership in convening this high level event.

Mr. President,

My country, Timor-Leste is a small island state and has recently made significant transition
from conflict towards economic growth. As a least develop country prone to natural
disasters, climate change poses immense pressure to the country’s economic growth and
development. Similar climate induced development challenges are increasingly evident in
many other parts of the world, particularly SIDS and LDCs.

Mr Pracidant

cooperation to tackle climate change. Now, here in Marrakech, it is time for us to focus on
implementation of the Paris Agreement - to formulate the rules and guidelines required and
to specify more precise means of implementation with the focus on mobilization of climate
finance, technology transfer and capacity building for the enhancement of actions on
adaptation and mitigation for increasing resilience as well as achieving sustainable

deployment goals.

In this regard, we would like to urge developed country parties to take the lead to reduce
their respective greenhouse gas emissions and to provide financial support for developing
countries based on the principles and provisions of the Convention as well as the Paris
Agreement. We express our deepest concern on the current status of fund availability of the
LDCF, which requires financial contributions from developed country parties.

Mr. President,

The Government of Timor-Leste is currently undertaking various adaptation activities under
the NAPA implementation projects which cover some key development sectors, including
food security and agriculture, water supply, heath and infrastructure. With regard to
mitigation, we have identified and developed various renewable energy resources such as
wind, solar and hydro powers, and biomass in the country. Currently, about 11% of rural
households have accessed to the renewable energy technologies which will be significantly
increased by 2030. In this regards, financial and technological support is urgently required

from the developed country parties to support these measures.

Mr. President,

We acknowledge that the COP22 has been mandated to review the Warsaw International
Mechanism for Loss and Damage (WIM). Hence, we appreciate the works of the Executive
Committee of the WIM during the implementation of its two-year work plan. However,
actions and supports for addressing loss and damage remain a challenge. Therefore, we
urge developed country parties to provide finance, technology and capacity building support

eo avralaning countries.

Finally, Mr. President,

We acknowledge that Timor-Leste is one of the countries that has not yet formally submitted
its INDC to the UNFCCC. However, we would like to inform the parties, that the INDC of
Timor-Leste has been approved by our government and it is ready for submission. In
addition, Timor-Leste is also currently in the process of ratifying the Paris Agreement. In this
regards, we would like to look forward for support from developed country parties, including
finance, technology and capacity building for successful implementation of our INDC.

| thank you.


