1. At the outset, allow me to first express the Government of the Kingom of Tonga’s
utmost gratitude to His Excellency Hon. Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama and the
people and Government of Fiji for their most sincere and warm hospitality accorded
our delegation upon our arrival.
2. Allow me to also extend our gratitude to the Government of Germany, and to the city
and citizens of North Rhine-Westphalia for their extraordinary support and
cooperation in holding this 23rd Session here in the beautiful city that is Bonn.
3. COP21, Paris, France 2015 was indeed a highly significant step in enhancing global
unity on the worlds most ominous issue that is climate change. Indeed, the adoption of
the Paris Agreement was a first step by the global community toward ensuring the
very survival of not only small island states such as Tonga, but also that of the planet
we all call home.
4. A step that has now evolved into a giant leap forward being the early entry into force
of the Paris Agreement on November 4th. A date already synonomous in Tonga - the
day we celebrate the promulgation of our national Constitution.
5. And in this celebatory context, we applaud those that have already taken this forward
leap and ratified the Paris Agreement, and implore those that have yet to ratify, to take
action in the collective spirit of humanity as witnessed on 15th October 2016, also led
to the adoption of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol.
Mr. President,
6. It is undeniable that the effects of Climate Change increasingly threaten the very
existence of Small Island Developing States such as Tonga, whose vulnerabilites are
rapidly increasing and swiftly eroding our capacities for resilience. Capacities which
when strengthened, and enhanced, will catalyze the requiste efforts for achieving and
safeguarding our sustainable development aspirations.
7. Such development efforts which continue to be hampered by unprecedented rates of
coastal erosion, increasing occurences of flash flooding, effects which are further
componded by tropical cyclones that are predicted to increase in intensity. Predictions
as such, are the realities we currently endure.
8. A disturbing co-existence that in the long term will see our demise as a small island
nation-state, and ultimately result in our disappearance as a people and a culture. A
despondent fate that will be sealed through low ambitions, weak action and inaction at
worst.
9. A co-existence which will ultimately lead to an undermining our national sovereignty,
our national autonomy, our national security, and is cause in calling on the
establishment of climate change as a core security issue. A call to the United Nations
Secretary-General to appoint a Special Representative on Climate Change and
Security, and a call to have Climate Change and Security as a permanent agenda item
for the UN Security Council.
10. In saying this, the implementation of the Paris Agreement brings new hope. A hope
that rests on the conscience of the global citizens. The early entry into force just prior
to COP22 in Morocco signaled the next steps for a global partnership in the battle
against the effects of climate change. A partnerhsip to now be steered and guided by
the Government of Fiji and in unison with the global community.
Mr. President,
11. In this light Mr. President, I must stress that our succeess or failure, and especially for
Tonga and other Small Island Developing States, hinges on the the need to rapidly
build resilience, and the urgent need for support to address adaptation as well as loss
and damage.
12. Needs as such which can be effectively achieved through the simplification of
modalities for accessing international climate financing mechanism, and the
establishment of a fast-track mechanism for resilience building and development in
SIDS.
13. We understand that the world is currently on a course where we have now reached a
1.1 degree world, and ss such, Tonga recognizes and re-emphasizes the intrinsic value
and imperative for limiting temperature increase to 1.50C. A goal that can only be
achieved through genuine global cooperation in the implementation of the Paris
Agreement, the Sendai Framework, Sustainable Development Goals, and the SAMOA
Pathway.
14. A streamlined approach which is strategically reflected, framed, and aligned to all
elements contained in Tonga’s National Climate Change Policy 2016, in the
development of our pending JNAP Phase II, and the National Organizational
Outcomes in our Strategic Development Framework 2015-2025, and our Nationally
Determined Contribution.
Mr. President
15. Upon ratifying the Paris Agreement, Tonga is committed in ensuring rapid
progression at the national level that will empower and enable our our efforts to
implement the necessary actions toward achieving our NDC targets.
16. NDC targets that have prompted Tonga to embark on an ambitious energy road map
that will see a dramatic rise in the proportion of renewable energy in its energy supply
through 50% access to renewable energy by 2020 and 70% by 2030, and our
commitment to double the number of Marine Protected Areas by 2030,
17. The of Kingdom of Tonga extends these same values and imperatives towards
strengthening dialogue and partnerships for the enhancement of actions, support and
synergies in the areas of technology, capacity building and the requisite financing for
implementation. Financing that is channelled through numerous initiatives such as the
Green Climate Fund, that can be further enhanced through a strengthened presence in
the Pacific region.
Mr. President,
18. In closing, this 23rd installment of the Conference of the Parties, and moreso the
opening of the first session of the CMA is testament to the genuine partnerships and
collective responsibility fostered between our countries.which must contain a robust
element of transparency. Civil society, Academia, and the private sector must play
their roles in ensuring genuine accountability by state actors, and must be steadfast
and continue to be the solid drivers in our search for solutions to the adverse effects of
Climate Change.
19. As one of fourteen Pacific frontline countries affected by climate change, I look
forward to more hard work ahead and the promise of a truly shared and sustainable
global vision and investment for both Tonga and the world’s present and future
generations.
Malo ‘aupito, and Thank you