 1 
 
PRIME MINSTER 
DR THE HON KEITH ROWLEY 
 
NATIONAL STATEMENT OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 
WORLD LEADERS’ SUMMIT AT COP 26 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Your Excellencies 
Heads of Government, 
 
We gather today at a pivotal point in the history of humanity, in a 
further attempt to deepen commitment and determination to 
mitigate the effects of climate change.   
 
The August 2021 report of the Inter -Governmental Panel on 
Climate Change has presented a sobering outlook, and brought 
into focus the severe shortfall i n closing the emissions gap.  Any 
temperature increase beyond the 1.5 degrees Celsius level will 
 2 have long -term and permanent consequences, particularly for 
small countries and economies such as Trinidad and Tobago. The 
only solution therefore, is to incre ase collective ambition. 
 
According to the World Energy Outlook, in order for the world to 
shift from our current unsustainable path, we need to: focus on 
driving renewable and sustainable electrification, improving 
efficiency, reducing methane emissions and turbo charging 
innovation.  We also need to implement strategies to unlock capital 
flows in support of energy transitions and ensure reliability and 
affordability. 
 
Mr. President, while mitigation ambition is driven by the 1.5 
degrees Celsius goal, th e global goal on adaptation has failed to 
achieve a commensurate level of attention and action.  At COP26, 
we must ensure that we have an outcome that helps to raise 
adaptation, ambition and action . Establishing a specific work 3 programme after COP26, to de fine the details for the global goal 
on adaptation, will be key.  
 
Trinidad and Tobago is a small island developing state already 
experiencing the effects of climate change.  Loss and damage are 
already clear in the aggressive erosion of our coastline and the 
bleaching of our coral reefs.  Tackling loss and damage must 
remain a critical and core issue of any global climate action 
framework. 
 
We are increasingly concerned about our ability to address this 
issue given the well -known difficulty in accessing f inancing for such 
projects. We need funds like the Green Climate Fund to establish 
specific streams for loss and damage finance to ensure that this is 
prioritized in the same way as mitigation and adaptation.  Further, 
there must be equitable ba lance between public finance for 
mitigation and adaptation.  
  4 COP26 will be a critical point at which we can assess whether our 
climate finance flows are headed in the right direction.  In this 
regard, the US announcement that it would double its climate 
finance support, is particularly inspiring. This is the type of bold 
action all donor countries need to consider in the weeks ahead 
The mobilization of private finance will also be critical for securing 
the urgently needed investment, particularly for the transformation 
of our energy sectors. 
 
Mr. President, we must complete the work to implement the 
Enhanced Transparency Framework.   Even as a small country 
with limited resources, we will make every effort to report to the 
required standard, with some as sistance, of course. We expect 
others to do the same. This is the deal we made in Paris.  We 
cannot go back on it now. 
 
 
 5 Mr. President, 
As an economy largely based on oil and gas and petrochemicals, 
we in Trinidad and Tobago recognize our responsibility i n 
transitioning, over reasonable and manageable time, to net zero. 
We have set very ambitious targets aimed at diversifying our 
economy.  We have embarked upon ambitious plans to reduce 
emissions and build climate resilience, but we will need help. These 
measures include the following:  
 
•    We are in the process of establishing the largest utility -
scale solar renewable energy project in the Caribbean with 
a capacity of 112 megawatts, accounting for 10% of our 
power needs, and we plan to increase this complement to 
30% by 2030; 
 
•    We have developed an e -mobility policy and we are 
already implementing measures to phase -in electric 
vehicles.  6 •    We recognize the need to address the socio -economic 
issues associated with the energy t ransition and have 
developed a Just Transition of the Workforce Policy aimed 
at reskilling, retooling and developing new capacity for a low -
carbon economy; 
 
•    We are pursuing measures to facilitate investment in 
green hydrogen to provide green feedst ock to our vibrant 
petrochemical industry. 
 
•    We intend to explore the use of industry -generated CO ₂ in 
possible carbon sequestration projects. 
 
Mr. President, COP26 has created great expectations and 
heightened hopes for climate ambition for Trinid ad and Tobago. 
This ambition includes reducing greenhouse gas emissions and 
providing much needed climate finance to enable vulnerable 7 countries to adapt to climate impacts, and assist in transforming 
their economies to more sustainable, low -carbon paths. 
 
Beyond the rhetoric and pledges, every country needs to be 
serious about urgent action in this decade. Trinidad and Tobago is 
committed to working with all countries in the multilateral 
framework to ensure a safe and secure world for those yet to be 
born.  It is my sincere hope that we will all be able to look back at 
COP 26, and the commitments and progress made here in 
Glasgow, as key steps towards a healthier salvageable planet 
Earth. 
 
Let’s work for survival, of ours and all species. 
Let’s not choose extinction! 
Mr President, I thank you.  
 
 