1 STATEMENT 
by the President of Turkmenistan 
at the 28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
UN Framework Convention on climate change 
(Dubai, UAE, December 1 -2, 2023) 
 
Excellency, Mr. President , 
Distinguished Heads of States and Governments, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
First of all, allow me to express gratitude to the Leadership 
and Government of the United Arab Emirates for their warm 
hospitality and excellent conditions for our productive work . 
Turkmenistan considers its participation in th is conference as 
a milestone in advancing its international strategy on climate change 
issues. Important part of this strategy is to ensur e steadiness and 
consistency of implementing initiatives put for ward by our country 
since the United Nations Conference on Su stainable Development 
(Rio+20), other major forums and Turkmenistan's ongoing efforts. 
The National Climate Change Strategy adopted in 2012 
served as starting point for Turkmenistan's full engagement in the 
global climate agenda. 
Our c ountry's joining the Paris Agreement became the next 
logical step. In 2019, a revised version of the National Climate 
Change Strategy was approved . 2 This inclusive document contains a comprehensive set of 
measures for adapting almost all key sectors of economy and social 
sphere to the new conditions . Special attention is given to the fuel 
and energy complex, in which significant efforts are being made to 
reduce emissions by increasing utilization of associated petroleum 
gas and reducing losses of natural gas during transportation. 
As a responsible state Turkmenistan recognizes the need to 
continue targeted efforts at both international and national levels to 
ensure further progress in combating climate change and its results . 
One of its important aspects - is our country's contribution to 
international efforts to reduce methane emissions . 
At the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change , which was held in 
Glasgow, Turkmenistan expressed support for the new initiative on 
Global Methane Pledge and expressed its interest in detailed 
study ing this document and participating in its implementation. 
In line with the recommendations of the UN Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and with active support of the 
United Nations Development Program, in May 2022 our country 
prepared and approved Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) 
of Turkmenistan to the Paris Agreement on climate . This strateg ic 
document assumes 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in 
2030 compare to 2010 levels. 3 Today, from the high rostrum , Turkmenistan officially 
declares on its joining the Global Methane Pledge. At the same 
time Turkmenistan will continue its current cooperation with 
international organizations and partner countries within existing 
projects and programs aimed at practical implementation of 
commitments rising from the Global Methane Pledge. 
In the context of broad international cooperation in addressing 
climate issues in Central Asia, which were promoted by our country 
for many years, it is essential to highlight the importance of 
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of 
Environmental Protection of Turkmenistan and United Natio ns 
Environment Program (UNEP) which was signed on November 
13 this year, aiming to develop regional programs for 
transferring climate technologies to Turkmenistan and Central 
Asia n states . 
We consider this document as a first step and significant legal 
basis for considering the establishment of UN Regional Cent re for 
Climate Technolog y for Central Asia in Turkmenistan . 
Thus , Turkmenistan ’s initiative to create this specialized UN 
Centre for a region with population of almost 80 million, unique 
natural resources and biodiversity and , at the same time , located in 
a zone of serious environmental risks, is now gaining real prospects. 
 4 Fully committed to continu e multilateral cooperation within 
the global climate initiatives, Turkmenistan welcomes proposed 
Declaration on Climate and Health and considers it important to 
support th is Declaration to confirm our collective determination and 
unity on health care issues in the implementation of Paris Agreement. 
Recognizing exceptional significance of the impact of climate 
change in ensuring global food security, Turkmenistan fully 
supports Emirates Declaration on sustainable agriculture, 
resilient food systems, and climate action . 
Recognizing importance of coordination between national and 
sub-national governments to combat climate change, Turkmenistan 
is ready to support Initiative to create the COP -28 Coalition for 
High Ambition Multi -Level Partnerships in the combating 
climate change. 
We are ready to further strengthen cooperation at regional and 
global levels in the fields of agricu lture, ecology, energy, finance 
and health with all interested parties to achieve the goals of Emirates 
Declaration, taking into account national interests of Turkmenistan. 
Thank you for your attention, and wish all participants of the 
conference success in their activities . 
 