 
Tuvalu National Statement for the COP 28 Meeting 
Honourable Prime Minister Kausea Natano 
 
1. Mr. President. 
Excellencies 
Ladies and Gentlemen. 
 
2. Mr. President, I wish to convey my deep gratitude and 
appreciation to the Government and people of Dubai, 
United Arab Emirates, for the hospitality and 
diplomatic protocols accorded to myself and my 
delegation. 
 
3. I would like also to congratulate you, on your 
appointment as President and chair of the COP 28. 
Tuvalu reaffirms its support for your leadership and 
presidency. 
4. Mr. President , as we gather to bear witness to the 
relentless march of climate change, we recognize that 
the entire world has already felt its brutal effects. 
…But let me remind you yet again, that Tuvalu and 
other small low -lying island nations face the worst and 
most immediate impacts. This is a fact.  
Imagine an island nation with a land area of only 26 
square kilometers, and a maximum height of 2 meters 
above sea -level. 
In fact, during high tide periods, sea -water intrudes 
and covers 40% of Tuvalu’s capital, Funafuti Island. 
We walk and ride our bikes on roads covered with sea -
water. 
Climate Change is the single greatest threat to 
Tuvalu’s existence . 
 
5. Every year, Tuvalu and other small island nations 
come to COP meetings to remind the world, especially 
the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases, of our 
relentless suffering. How many more COP meetings 
do we need to drive home to you this message of our 
loss and anguish? As a nation we have come to the 
shocking realisation that we now exist to mitigate 
and adapt to the effects of climate change.  
 6. In the strongest possible terms, Tuvalu wishes to 
reaffirm the urgency of the climate crisis that Pacific 
Small Island Developing Nations face, despite our 
insignificant contribution to global emissions. 
7. Despite our size, Tuvalu has taken significant action 
on its own behalf, and with other Small Island Nations 
and States in the fight against climate change. We have 
proactively risen to the climate change’s complicated 
challenges , through several initiatives and programs. 
We have to be forward -looking and proactive , so that 
we preserve and maintain our land, statehood, 
sovereignty, culture and identity. Thus, we initiated or 
become part of initiatives and programs such as Rising 
Nations Initiative (RNI), Future Now Project, Long -
Term Adaptation Plan, COSIS , Unlocking Blue 
Pacific Prosperity, and others. 
 8. Moreover, Mr. President, r ecently, Tuvalu and 
Australia signed a special partnership arrangement , 
known as the Falepili Union Treaty. One of the 
Treaty’s major aspects is our commitment to safeguard 
and support each other as we face the existential threat 
of climate change.  It is also a “testament to our proactive stance towards 
planned, dignified, and voluntary migration”. 
 
9. Mr. President, the numerous climate change related 
initiatives that Tuvalu has undertaken is an indication 
of our grave concern, deep commitment to, and our 
seriousness about the climate crisis. It signifies our 
fear of imminent loss, amidst rapidly accelerating 
climate change.  
10. But while we diligently work to mitigate loss and shore 
up our future, Tuvaluans are also realistic. We 
understand that most of these initiatives and programs, 
including the pledged millions of dollars, are not 
going to resolve the core cause of global warming and 
climate change. In fact, the Paris Agreement talks 
about the controlling of emissions, but does not talk 
about the production of fossil fuel, which is the main 
cause of global warming. We, therefore, support the 
call for a global fossil fuel phase out . 
11. Mr. President. Before I conclude, I thank all the 
countries and organizations that intrinsically feel our 
plight, and fight together with us. 
 12. Even countries that are not members of the UN 
family, such as the Republic of China (Taiwan), 
remain a force for good in the world. Taiwan continues 
to contribute to the international community, despite 
encountering multiple obstacles. It is our hope that 
Taiwan can join the international community to 
address climate change, and participate in negotiations 
related to the Paris Agreement. Mr. President, we need 
all forms of assistance to fight this climate war. 
13. I come to this COP with high hopes, and I would like 
to think of COP 28 as a ‘COP of Hope’. The priority 
of the Tuvaluan people is to stay and to continue living 
on their God-given land . Therefore, we need not only 
hope and reassurance, but determined action . Every 
initiative, every dollar, every commitment, and any 
assistance to fight against this climate crisis is needed , 
at this point of time . 
14. I thank you, Mr. President. 
 