1 
 
 
 The Republic of Uganda  
HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE UNITED NATIONS CLIMATE 
CHANGE CONFERENCE , KATOWICE, POLAND 
 
 
 
STATEMENT  
 
Delivered by 
 
HON . DR MARY GORET TI KITUTU KIMONO 
MINISTER OF STATE FOR WATER AND ENVIRONMENT AND HEAD OF THE 
UGANDA DELEGATION 
 
12 December 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 H.E.Michal Kurtyka, President of the COP 24,  
Your Excellency Frank Bainimarama, Outgoing President of the COP 23, 
Excellence Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of UNFCCC Secretariat, 
Distinguished Heads of Delegations, 
Friends, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Mr. President, 
Let me begin by expressing my sincere gratitude for the hospitality extended to me and my 
delegation by the Government and the people of Poland. I commend Poland for the excellent 
arrangements and for steering the negot iations in an open, transparent and highly inclusive 
manner. 
Uganda associates herself with the Statements delivered by Ethiopia on behalf of the Least 
Developed Countries, Egypt on behalf of the African Group and the G 77+China as well as the 
Democratic Re public of Congo on behalf of the Coalition of Rainforest Nations. 
 Mr President, 
As a witness to extreme climate calamities that my country and many other vulnerable 
countries are now facing, Uganda has come to Poland with hope and determination to engage 
constructively in the current negotiat ions towards a desired outcome of delivering a robust 
Rule Book to allow us to begin full implementation of the historic Paris Agreement. 
The 5th Assessment Report and the recent Special Report on 1.5 degrees Celsius released by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate change (IPCC) a s well as the latest Africa’s Adaptation 
Gap R eport by UN Environment are very clear. All predict that the impacts of climate change 
will lead to more flooding, famine, drought and disease w hich will have negative impacts for 
millions of people. As you are aware, the IPCC Special Report further warns that the planet is 
heating up faster than anticipated and that we have only less than 12 years to take bold action 
to avoid a myriad of catastro phes. 
Mr President , 
In this context, Uganda is no exception as we have continuously witnessed the extreme weather 
events resulting in recurrent landslides in the highlands of eastern and western parts of the 
country as well as surrounding lowlands. As if t hese were not enough punishment, the country 
has equally been hit hardest by myriad of prolonged droughts, heat waves, storms and 
infestations of crop pests and diseases. All these have brought corresponding problems of 
severe famine and malnutrition for t he affected communities and are greatly eroding the life -
support natural ecosystem services. Our limited development funds for roads, agriculture, 
social services and critical infrastructure have of necessity been shifted to deal with 
humanitarian assistan ce to the victims. 
However, despite these challenges and noting that my people are least resp onsible for causing 
this warming up of the mother earth , my Government is totally committed to playing its role 
based on our national circumstances. Already Govern ment has put in place the policy, 
institutional and legal framework to respond to this ‘monster’. Our National Climate Change 3 
 Policy and the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) are quite ambitious in contributing 
to reduction of greenhouse gas emissio ns from mainly the forestry, energy, transport, wetland 
and agriculture sectors as well as promotion of carbon market mechanisms. Water, health, 
human settlements and infrastructure climate proofing are equally important in our adaptation 
measures. 
Mr. President 
On climate finance, Uganda strongly urges the developed countries Parties to honour their 
pledges of mobilizing the USD 100 B illion per annum by the year 2020. We however salute 
those industrialized countries that continue to provide financing to po or and vulnerable 
countries like Uganda to address priority adaptation and climate resilient interventions. The 
Katowice outcome must therefore provide for all the essential elements of finance to support 
the poor vulnerable countries tame the run -away cli mate change problem. 
Mr. President , 
The slow onset events facing us put a spotlight on loss and damage with associated impacts 
such as displacements and loss of livelihoods. In this respect therefore my Delegation calls for 
enhanced Warsaw International Me chanism for Loss and Damage under the COP 24 outcome . 
Mr President 
I recognise effort in galvanising bolder ambition through Talanoa which ensures a constructive, 
transparent and solutions -oriented dialogue. We therefore strongly believe that the 
conclusio ns of these dialogues should propel further climate action to save the planet. 
On gender and climate change with human rights responsive lenses , there is need to provide 
enhanced financing and capacity a s well as climate -smart technologies. It is therefore 
necessary to incorporate the gender action plan into the implementation guidelines of the 
Paris Agreement. 
 Mr. President 
Finally, Uganda therefore looks forward to seeing a balanced and favourable outcome in 
Katowice. 
 
I thank you. 
 
FOR GOD AND MY CO UNTRY 
 
 