 
 
 
NATIONAL STATEMENT BY RT. HON. NABBANJA 
ROBINAH 
PRIME MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
DURING THE FIRST PART OF THE HEADS OF 
STATE AND GOVERNMENT WORLD CLIMATE 
ACTION SUMMIT AT COP28, DUBAI, UNITED 
ARAB EMIRATES. 
 
 
1ST – 2ND DECEMBER 2023 9:00 AM – 2:00 PM 
 
AL HAIRAT PLENARY HALL 
Page 2 of 4 
 
Excellecies 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen. 
 
1. I bring you warm greetings from H .E President Yoweri 
Kaguta Museveni and the people of Uganda. 
Uganda congratulates the United Arab Emira tes under 
the able leadership of H.E President Sheikh Mohammed 
bin Zayed Al Nahyan and the COP28 President H.E 
Sultan Al Jaber for their exemplary leadership in 
convening COP28. 
 
2. Uganda is uniquely favored by nature compared to 
other parts of the Globe because it lies astride the 
equator and is between 621metres and 5011metres 
above sea -level, that is why it enjoys the sun 
punctuated with plenty of rain all year around but also 
has moderate temperatures of between 19◦c at night 
and 24◦ -29◦c during the day. 
 
3. Some parts of Uganda actually have perman ent snow, 
like Mt. Rwenzori, which is right next to the Equator! Page 3 of 4 
 Uganda also has massive plateau, with large fresh water 
bodies, that is why Uganda is called the Pearl of Africa 
 
4. While Uganda’s natural biodiversity presents significant 
opportunities for adaptation and mitigation that can 
contribute to the global reduction of Greenhouse gas 
emissions, it is highly vulnerable to environment 
shocks. We are experienc ing flash flood s, landslides, 
prolonged drought s and rising temperatures caused by 
both internal and external factors.  
 
5. Excellencies, Uganda has come up with policies to protect 
our environment and biodiversity that require funding. 
 
6. Ecxellencies, I note that currently only 10% of climate finance 
reaches the local level. This is unacceptable. Uganda therefore 
supports the climate finance approaches that ensures 70% of the 
funds reach the most vulne rable at lowest level. 
 
7. Uganda expects that Cop 28 will establish simplified and easy to 
access operational mechanism for loss and damage fund; free from Page 4 of 4 
 the burden of the Multilateral Development Banks processes. This 
will ease the burden on the poor and vulnerable communities. 
 
8. Your exc ellencies, a s I conclude, Government of Uganda 
recognizes and welcomes Just Transitions that is orderly 
and phase d energy transition that ensures the shift 
from fossil fuels to renewable energy that minimizes 
negative con sequences on workers, communities, 
ecosystems and national economies for enhanced 
energy access and Sustainable Development. 
I thank you. 
 
Nabbanja Robinah 
PRIME MINISTER 
 
The Republic of Uganda 