Greetings from the people of Uganda. I thank Rt.
Honourable Boris Johnson for hosting this Climate
Conference. The climate problem is as a
consequence of damaging the environment by
irresponsible and, sometimes, greedy human
actions. It is also ungodly because in the Book of
Genesis, Chapter: 1, verse 9, God commanded as
follows: “Then God said, ‘Let the waters under the
heavens be gathered together into one place, and let
the dry land appear’, and it was so. And God called
the dry land earth, and the gathering together of the
waters He called seas”. Furthermore, nature, which
is God’s creation, created mountains, swamps, lakes,
forests, grasslands, etc., each with a separate
function, in supporting life of animals and plants.
However, irresponsible, greedy, ignorant and
rebellious human beings, do not respect God’s
commands and nature’s tested and rational
arrangements.

In Uganda, the irresponsible actors, have committed
the following sins:

1. Invading the forests that covered 45% of
Uganda’s land area in 1900AD. These now
only cover 12.4% of Uganda’s land area.

2. Invading the wetlands (swamps). These are,
in fact, slow-flowing river tributaries of the
Nile system. Uganda, being a plateau, these
slow-flowing tributaries, are always, covered
with swamp grass and plants such as
papyrus (ebifunjo — cyperus-papyrus),
ebigugu (cyperam latifolia), etc. These river
tributaries and their swamp grass and
plants, are very crucial for the transpiration
cycle of sucking water from the rivers and
throwing it in the atmosphere as part of the
factory work, for making rain. Invading
them, is disrupting the water cycle in rain
formation for both convectional and relief
types, of rain.

3. Invading shores of the lakes and the banks
of the rivers, destroying the vegetation there-
on and, therefore, allowing the run-off water
(Omutuunga, Omukoka, Alele), to Carry silt
into the water bodies and, gradually, silt
them, apart from the danger of eventual
eutrophication — aquatic plants that are
encouraged by the mineral nutrients put in
the lakes by the unfiltered run-off water,
exhausting the oxygen in the water bodies
and causing the fish to die off and disappear.

4. Invading and settling on mountain ridges
that are steeper than 31%. Apart from
destroying the forest cover that is part of
nature’s instrument of capturing Coz from
the atmosphere and using it beneficially,
through photosynthesis, to make food for
plants and animals, the forests in the
mountains, protect the water springs that
eventually become rivers and their roots
hold firmly the soil to avoid land-slides.
There are, for instance, 18 rivers birthed by
the Rwenzori Mountain and 17 birthed by
Mount Elgon. On the Rwenzori Mountain,
they are: Nyamwaamba, Mobuku, Rwimi,
Nyamugasani, Lubiriha, Tokwe, Sebwe,
Semliki, Kanyampara, Mahoma,
Kamusongi, Karugutu, Mugusu, Bujuku,
Bukurungu, Batoda, Kisindika, Mpondwe.
Out of Mount Elgon, we get Malaba,
Manaafwa, Mpologoma, Lwakhakha,
Sironko, Suam, Sipi, Simu, Bukwa, Sisiyi,
Muyembe, Sasa, Dirijana, Atari, Sitti,
Namataala, Nabisiso, Chebonet.

5.  Wrong agricultural practices (no contouring,
no trenches for water retention, etc.), cause
soil erosion and poor water retention by the
soils.

6. Cutting of trees carelessly, outside the forest
area, in the agricultural areas, deprives us of
wind-breaks so that when eihuunga (windy
rain) comes, crops and properties get
destroyed. Besides, untamed wind,
interferes with the cross-pollination of crops
and, therefore, undermines the efforts for big
harvests.

These sins committed by irresponsible, greedy,
ignorant or anti-God rebellious Ugandan actors,
result in damage to the environment but also into
climate change in the following ways: first, 40% of
our rainfall has, apparently, been from the local
water bodies (Lakes and swamps mentioned above).
Therefore, destroying them, interferes with this
portion of our rain. Itis, apparently, 60% of our rain,
that comes from the Oceans. There is proof to this.
The West Nile part of Uganda and the West Acholi
areas are on average 3°00' Latitude North, just like
the Karamoja portion of Uganda. Why, then, is it that
the West Nile and West Acholi parts receive 60 inches
of rain but Karamoja receives only 35 inches of rain
in a year? It is, apparently, on account of the swamps
in South Sudan and the forest in Congo.

Of course, our forests and plants help in taking
carbon-dioxide from the atmosphere, globally.

We have, therefore, discovered and well understood,
these sins and determined to reverse them. People
in the wetlands and forests must leave and get
alternative livelihood. Resources need to be
mobilized for this purpose, so as to ensure a soft
landing for the transgressors, many of them out of
ignorance or wrong Government actions in the past
(e.g. the growing of swamp rice). With enough
resources (money), this is doable. Let the World help
where they can.

All the above, are our local sins. I cannot say petty
sins, because destroying 40% of Uganda’s rain,
cannot be described as petty sin.

In order to permanently remove the Ugandan
potential sinners from temptation, we need to
understand the strategic importance of social-
economic transformation of the economy and society.
The Ugandan society must change from a pre-
capitalist, subsistence based society, to a middle
class, skilled working class society. In order to create
this society, we have been using four stimuli:
universal education; full monetization of the
economy (wiping out the subsistence economy);
modernizing the economy (industrialization,
digitization and developing the services sector); and
electrification of the economy, so that we do away
with the use of the bio-mass for energy (fire-wood).

Within the industrialization, we take care of the
majority of the population shifting from agriculture
to services and industry. Only a few people should
remain in agriculture. In the USA, UK, etc., the
people in agriculture are only 2% of the population.
Too many people in agriculture, especially primitive
agriculture, cannot allow the conservation of forests,
wetlands, etc. You cannot say that the society
remains in primitive agriculture but, somehow, you
will ensure environmental conservation.

If you conserve under-development, you should
forget about conserving the environment.

Having addressed the not so small sins by our
irresponsible, greedy, ignorant or rebellious actors, I
now come to the mega sins of: who? Is it greed or
was it historically determined ignorance? These
sinners are the mega-emitters of Coz. These are: the
USA — 13%, China - 30%, India — 6.8%, etc. These
need to lead the World in the retreat from the
precipice (eneengo) into which they are threatening
to throw all of us, the guilty and the un-guilty
(nalumanya, n’ ssalumanya). Maybe in the past,
people did not know; but we now know. The good
thing is that clean energy — solar, wind, geo-thermal,
etc. — is becoming cheaper. Some years ago, a
kilowatt hour of solar electricity was 40 American
cents. It is now US 6cents or less or 10cents plus
with battery. If we use solar power for factories,
lighting, refrigeration and cars (land- transport), that
leaves air-transport as the one that needs petroleum.
That is not a bad arrangement. I am told, it would
take away much of the 45% of the emissions
contributed by the hydro-carbons (petrol, diesel,
heavy fuel, etc.), to the atmosphere. Then there is the
coal, not a hydro-carbon, but just a carbon. This,
apparently, contributes 37% to the emissions of Coz
in the atmosphere.

Farming contributes 18.4% to the emissions if you
leave the cow-dung outside to decompose naturally.
If, however, you gather the cow-dung (amasha — not
dung in African dialects — dung is for humans,
mainly) and turn it into bio-gas, you get 13% of the
emissions reduced and if bio-gas was to replace
hydro-carbons in use, emissions would reduce by
240%.

Besides, we the oil producers, do not have to worry
about our oil. There are safer uses for this oil for a
long time. This is in the form of petrol — chemicals
— not the dangerous buveera (light bags for
packaging), but polyester for textiles, plastic chairs,
car-seats, insulation for electric cables, use in
fertilizers, use in medicines, etc. If safe technologies
are used to process and dispose these, they have
minimal emissions. What, then, is the problem?

Once we have dealt with the emissions of carbon-
dioxide that traps heat in the atmosphere and causes
global warming, then we need to deal with the gases
that eat the ozone layer that protects us from the
dangerous sun-rays. These are: methane (CH4),
carbon-monoxide (CO), Nitrogen-oxides (NO,),
Sulphur-oxides (SO,), ozone gas (Os), etc. These are,
apparently, from mainly the combustion of inefficient
car engines, inefficient refrigerators but also from
decomposing swamp grasses (naturally occurring).
The naturally occurring methane gas from swamps,
is said to be negligible. In any case, the peat in
Swamps can be safely converted into energy.
Therefore, the dangerous ozone layer eaters are the
other ones: ozone gas, carbon-monoxide, Nitrogen-
oxides, Sulphur-oxides, étc., which are, mainly, from
poor quality engines. The answer is to either
completely replace those combustion engines with
electric cars or, in the short run, have more efficient
combustion engines.

It is, therefore, possible to do the following to save
the homo sapien sapien and other life-forms:

1. Remove the use of coal — 37%,

2. Target removing automobiles, industrial fuels,
etc. — much of the 45%.

3. Remove dangerous farming practices like
allowing cow-dung to decompose outside —
18.4%.

4. Dealing with inefficient combustion engines, will
minimize ozone layer eating gases.

Moreover, there are fallback uses for the hydro-
carbons in the form of: textiles, medicines, plastics
for car seats, insulation, etc.

In the last 4.5million years of the homo sapien
sapien’s (wise-man) tenancy on earth, this wise-man,
has been oppressed by two phenomena: oppression
of man by nature (floods, drought, disease, earth
quakes, etc. — natural phenomena) and oppression
of man by man. The wise-man, the wise primate
(mammal), has been improving his condition of life
by using his superior brain to understand the laws
of nature (gravity, pressure, magnetism, etc.) and
use them to improve the lot of man on earth. Our
knowledge is now much greater. Let us use it to
improve the lives of all people on the earth but also
do it safely and cheaply and, apparently, it is doable.
I had not focused my mind on this issue at the global
level. Apparently, there are safe solutions.

Therefore, let the World banish greed, ignorance,
irresponsibility and rebelliousness, save our planet
and use our greater knowledge to ensure affluence
for all the people of the World.

I thank you.

