The statement of Ukraine at joint HLS 
 
Mister President, 
Your Excellences, 
Dear colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me start by expressing our sincere gratitude to the Republic 
of Fiji, Federal Republic of Germany and city of Bonn for the 
hospitality and excellent organization of 23d Conference of the 
Parties - the first Conference under the Presidency of Small Island 
Developing Countries.  
Last year I was congratulating Parties with the significant 
achievement - entering into force of the Paris Agreement, but we all 
realized that the important and not easy work is ahead of us. No doubt 
that fast ratification and entrance into force of Paris Agreement was a 
great success and a landmark achievement. Now we all ne ed to work 
diligently to ensure that the successful story of Paris Agreement will 
be continued and in Katowice next year the Rules and Procedures to 
Paris Agreements will be adopted. Parties need to make sure that 
work on the implementation of Paris Agreem ent will be transparent, 
inclusive, innovative and balanced. Parties need to work within the 
mandate and spirit of Paris Agreement to finaliz e rules and 
procedures next year. We need to make sure that a political success 
will be reinforced with technical success next year. 
 
 On the way to Katowice we need to rem ain work ing closely 
with each other, find ing common ground and not be afraid of 
innovations and compromises for the sake of the common big goal. 
 
Ukraine strongly believes that work under Paris Agreement 
should be ambitious and innovative. Provision of support, cooperation 
and both market and non -market mechanisms are very important for 
the implementation of the objective of the Convention and succe ssful 
realization of Paris Agreement. We envisage possibility and necessity 
of innovative financial approach – to be based on actual achievements 
of Parties in combating climate change, on a balance of our common 
but differentiated relations between nation s and ecosystems. Such approach will create the long -term environment for non -governmental 
players’ involvement and more predictable global green -finance 
flows. 
We also envisage the necessity of deepening our work on 
multilateral, regional and trans -border collaboration , involving public 
and private entities. We may propose that such could be achieved via 
network of international treaty organizations – Integrated Climate 
Partnerships, that can be created under UNFCCC coordination and 
support . 
Ukraine is doi ng its work to reduce the threat of climate change 
by its own as well as with the help of our international partners. 
Pursuing the ratification of Paris Agreement, Ukraine has adopted the 
Concept for the implementation of the state policy in the field of 
climate change for the period until 2030 (the first comprehensive 
national act in the field of climate change). We have completed the 
development of the Strategy of Low Carbon Development of Ukraine 
until 2050 . With the support of our international partners, we are 
actively working on the establishment of a national MRV system in 
order to further implement the national carbon market. Even under 
complicated national circumstances caused by Russian Aggression, 
Ukrainian Government and people are dedicated to climate change 
issue, environmental integrity and low emission development. All that 
with strong international support, could lead us to new and more 
ambitions NDCs in nearest future. 
 
 
Dear colleagues,  
       
We believe that the spirit of cooperation among countries will 
only get stronger in the coming years and all together we will be able 
to protect the planet and make it clean and sustainable for our children 
and future generations. 
 
I thank you. 
 