 
The statement of Ukraine at resumed HLS 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguish colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me express our sincere gratitude to the people of Republic of 
Poland and the city of Katowice for their warm and friendly hospitality 
and excellent organization of COP 24. 
The latest special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change contains bad news for humanity – global warming is likely to 
reach 1,5oC more sooner than expected earlier if it continues to incre ase 
at current rate. To avoid this scenario all Parties shall start declining 
GHG emissions pathways as soon as possible. 
Ukraine is one of the leader s among Parties in continuously 
reducing its net GHG emissions. Only for the last 10 years, Ukraine has 
cut its GHG emissions cumulatively by 4.4 billons tons of CO 2 
equivalent, that is 11% of current global annual emissions. Such a great 
contribution by Ukraine to the global effort s to combat climate change 
has been continuously made despite the Russian armed aggression 
against my country. 
The Ukrainian Donbas became a shooting range for Russian regular 
troops. Flooding of mines, destruction of natural habitats, increased 
water and air pollution with potential catastrophic regional consequences 
are the environ mental crimes perpetrated by the Russian Federation. 
Russia’s armed aggression against Ukraine and the temporary 
occupation of Crimea and part of Donbas were condemned by the 
international community and responded by sanctions. As Russia persists 
in its agg ressive course of action, the sanction track must be further 
strengthened. 
Even under such difficult circumstances, Ukraine consistently 
works towards stepping up of its efforts in combating climate change. Being one of the very first Parties to the Paris Agreement , Ukraine has 
already developed and adopted its 2050 Low Emission Development 
Strategy. As indicated in its Low Emission Development Strategy, 
Ukraine will strive to achieve economy -wide GHG emissions target of 
31-34% by 2050 compared to 19 90 level. Ukraine has launched the 
revision of first NDC with the aim to reflect the highest possible 
ambition of my country.  
For Ukraine, successful Katowice outcome would be the adoption 
of robust Rules and Procedures of the Paris Agreement that addre sses in 
transparent and fair way the issues of differentiation and flexibility, 
transparency and Article 6, adaptation and finance. 
We must ensure that Paris Agreement Rule Book safeguard s the 
principles of Paris Agreement. The Rule Book must ensure reliability, 
comparability and transparency of NDCs . At the same time, the 
reporting framework should provide the platform for international 
community to understand where we are and how we are going to reach 
the Paris Agreement goals. The avoidance of double counting of 
emissions, territories and efforts is one the mechanisms of achieving it. 
Let me also recall to all Parties and UNFCCC Secretariat the 
paragraph 6 of the U nited Nations General Assembly Resolution 
“Territorial integrity of Ukraine” which calls upon all countries, 
international organizations and specialized agencies not to recognize 
any alteration of the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and 
the city of Sevastopol . In this regard, we call upon all Parties and the 
Secretariat to strictly abide by the provisions of this resolution in what 
refers to the submissions made by the Russian Feder ation. 
I urge all Parties to unite and put their effort to ensure successful 
outcome of this COP in Katowice and adopt robust Paris Rule book, that 
will enable successful implementation of Paris Agreement. 
 
 
I thank you , Mr. President 