Mister President, Your Excellences, Dear colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me start by expressing our sincere gratitude to the Kingdom of Morocco for the excellent organization of a such important event and for its hospitality.
I would like to congratulate all of us on significant stage - entering into force of the Paris Agreement and the opening of the first session of Conference of Parties serving as meeting of the Parties of Paris Agreement. We are privileged to be among first countries which ratified Paris Agreement. The Ukrainian Parliament, acknowledging the gravity of climate change threat and urgency of actions that are required from each country, with its majority without reservations ratified the Paris Agreement on the 14th of July 2016. I believe that the progress, that was made on ratification of Paris Agreement by so many countries and major economies around the world, demonstrates a great success and devotion of the global community to the climate change problem. Paris Agreement is a landmark achievement and we need to ensure that the work on its implementation will be transparent, inclusive, innovative and balanced. We are eager to work on the substance of Paris Agreement as it was agreed by all Parties in Paris a year ago and now we are looking forward to performing under the new climate regime in close cooperation.
Ukraine believes that Paris Agreement is all about courage and cooperation. Courage to find compromises and common ground with other Parties, courage to go beyond short term individual interests of countries
for the sake of the long-term benefits for coming generations and prosperity of the humanity, courage to be ambitious and innovative.
We all are united today by common challenge and common threat. In the face of the imminent danger of climate change we believe that all countries must act resolutely and collectively. We all should remember that one of the core principles of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change – Common But Differentiated Responsibility is not only about differentiation, but also calls upon common responsibility of ALL Parties. We all should do the outmost and not to be afraid of being ambitious.
In our actions we need to be aware that the world is dynamic - some countries are developing more rapidly, while unfortunately others are facing new challenges. In the new climate regime those challenges should be addressed and more climate leaders should appear on this arena.
If we come together we can not only meet these challenges, we can also make the world more sustainable, secure and healthier place to leave for us and for the future generations; we can transform our economies, create jobs, ensure economic growth, improve living standards, we even can avoid war conflicts.
Ukraine is doing its work to reduce the threat of climate change by its own as well as with the help of our international partners. Pursuing the ratification of Paris Agreement, Ukraine launched implementation of Paris Agreement provisions such as development of Low Emission Development legislation that includes both mitigation and adaptation activities, establishment of the national MRV system with a view of further development and introduction of a national carbon market instrument and numerous energy regulations. Ukrainian Government is dedicated to climate change issue, environmental integrity and low emission
development, including energy efficiency and renewable energy, even under complicated national circumstances caused by Russian Aggression. All that with strong international support, could lead us to new and more ambitions NDCs in nearest future.
Ukraine strongly believes that work under Paris Agreement should be ambitious and innovative. Provision of support, cooperation and both market and non-market mechanisms are very important for the implementation of the objective of the Convention and successful realization of Paris Agreement. We envisage possibility and necessity of innovative financial approach – to be based on actual achievements of Parties in combating climate change, on a balance of our common but differentiated relations between nations and ecosystems. Such approach will create the long-term environment for non-governmental players’ involvement and more predictable global green-finance flows.
Dear colleagues, Ukraine supports the notion that new global climate change agreement implementation process / should include clear, transparent and specific requirements / and procedures for accountability / applicable to all parties at national and international levels. We believe that the spirit of cooperation among countries will only get stronger in the coming years and all together we will be able to protect the planet and make it clean and sustainable for our children and future generations. I thank you.