The statement of Ukraine at resumed HLS 
 
 
Madame President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
 
Let me express my sincere gratitude to the Kingdom of Spain and the city of Madrid for the 
hospitality and excellent organization of COP 25. 
 
I would also like to thank the Government of Chile for their commitment and leadership and 
reaffirmed support to the COP 25 Presidency. 
 
Today we live in the world which faces numerous threats of the global nature. The world, 
which changes every day and where being a passive observer means being a part of the 
problem. 
 
Ukraine is a country that demonstrates how people can change the world, when they stand 
together for a better future. The country, where people continue to act and w in in the face of 
numerous challenges. 
 
Ukraine is going through very difficult times. It’s the 6th year that we have been facing 
Russian armed aggression against my country, Crimea and part of Donbas are temporarily 
occupied, as a result we had a drasti c decline in social standards of people’s life. And, to be 
frank, this makes it harder for everyone to see climate change as a priority issue. 
  
But climate change is already visible in Ukraine: there are more than ever heat waves, 
droughts and extreme weather events. According to projections around 100 Ukrainian cities 
and villages will be fully or partially flooded with sea level rise by the end of this century. 
 
Immediate threats we are facing should not prevent us from contributing to the solution of the 
climate change disaster. 
 
Let me give you a few examples on the measures in Ukraine, which we already implement. 
Ukraine has established energy efficiency fund and provides financial support to households 
to implement energy efficiency measures. 
 
Ukraine has raised CO 2 tax for big companies and is working at introduction of 
comprehensive monitoring, reporting and verification procedures for industry. 
 
Renewable energy is growing fast in Ukraine and since 2009 we have had feed -in-tariff 
system, which will now change to auctioning mechanism. 
 And we have many more plans. We are planning to introduce economy -wide fuel based CO 2 
tax to raise m oney for additional energy efficiency measures. We are planning to close many 
state coal mines. And the most important - Ukrainian government is planning to develop a 
green energy transition vision till 2050, which will be reflected in our updated NDC next year. 
 
To implement all these plans we are looking for partnerships and cooperation. We seek more 
clarity on Green Climate Fund eligibility criteria for countries, which can apply for funding. 
Ukraine is ranked 132 by GDP per person and is recipient coun try in GEF and World Bank 
programs, but was excluded from recipient countries in GCF. 
 
Speaking about putting into operation Article 6, Ukraine strongly supports the notion of 
establishing new credible mechanisms, understanding that we are in a different context of 
new Paris world. Ukraine is strongly convinced that the issue of transition of particularly Kyoto 
Protocol units to the Article 6.4 can significantly discredit the future markets. 
 
As stressed many times at this session, we call upon all Parties and the Secretariat to abide 
by the provisions of the paragraph 6 of the United Nations General Assembly resolution 
68/262 “Territorial integrity of Ukraine” in what refers to the submissions and s tatements 
made by the Russian Federation. 
 
The Secretariat when referring to Crimea in its official documents, communications and 
publications, including with regard to statistical data of the Russian Federation, should refer to 
“the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, Ukraine, temporarily 
occupied by the Russian Federation” as set out in paragraph 11 of the UN GA resolution 
73/263 of 22 December 2018. 
 
Russian armed aggression against Ukraine was strongly condemned by the international 
community and responded by sanctions. As Russia persist s in its aggressive course of 
action, the sanction track must be preserved and further strengthened. 
 
In a region experiencing conflict, we do not need the extra pressures that climate change puts 
on society. We should do everything possible to prevent the worst consequences of global 
warming predicted by the scientists and we can do it together! 
 
We are ready to act to be among the leading nations to drive the change towards better and 
safer carbon free future. 
 
Finally, I would like to stress the role and need for cooperation with civil society and youth. 
Their motivation, ambition and action are crucial for leading the serious reforms we have to 
implement. 
 
We believe that the spirit of cooperation among countr ies will get stronger in the coming 
years. 
 