On behalf of the United Arab Emirates, I wish to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the 
leadership and people of the Kingdom of Morocco for hosting the COP 22 Climate C hange Conference . 
Today we seek to make important decisions that support the implementation of the Pa ris Agreement and 
translate its outcomes into successful actions that reduce the impacts of global warming. I applaud the 
continued efforts of the Secretariat to achieve the aspirations of the world to ensure a sustainable future for 
generations to come. 
Turning the Paris Agreement into real initiatives on the ground requires enormous efforts and collaboration 
at local, regional and international levels. The Paris Agreement also mandates the adoption of a flexible 
approach that allows all countries, especi ally those in the developing world, to take urgent action in line with 
their national priorities and circumstances. At the same time, the developed world has a responsibility to 
honor its commitments to extend financial support to developing countries, and help them in capacity building 
and climate change adaptation through technology transfer mechanisms. 
The wide participation of countries as well as non-state actors in this conference boosts our confidence and 
demonstrates the commitment and concerted eff orts of the international community to minimize the impacts 
of climate change and will enable the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement . 
Ladies and gentlemen , 
As a Party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and in line with its international 
commitments, the United Arab Emirates ratified the Paris Agreement, its commitments also demonstrate d by 
hosting of the World Green Economy Summit (WGES) over the last two -years . The country is currently 
working on the development of a national action plan on climate change that will serve as a framework for 
future initiatives and programs to address climate change . We have also adopted strategies that focus on the 
transition of the country from a hydro -carbon focused economy to a more diversified and knowledge -based 
economy . The green initiatives implemented by the UAE include the launch of the Green Economy for 
Sustainable Development initiative as well as others that aim to support research and development in the 
clean energy sector. These initiatives promote rationalization of water consumption, improve energy 
efficiency, support the transition to a low -carbon economy, boost innovation and creativity and promote a 
culture of sustainability . 
As part of this priority, the UAE is working hard to increase the share of clean energy in its energy mix to 27% 
by 2021. Our nation also broke a world record for the second time this year when it received the lowest 
bidding pr ice of US cents 2.42 per kilowatt -hour for a solar photovoltaic (PV) project. 
 In the same context, the UAE successfully implemented the 100 MW Shams 1 concentrated solar power 
project and is developing the Mohammed bin Rashid Solar Park that leverage s both photovoltaic and 
concentrated solar technologies and will generate 5,000 megawatts of electricity by 2030 . Above all, the 
country believes in the significance of public -private partnership as one of the key drivers of green growth . 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
The Paris Agreement has sent a clear message to the world. As governments, we have the responsibility to 
involve non -state actors and galvanize the efforts of all parties towards achieving our common agenda . 
In the UAE, we are committed to working on initiatives that contribute to the mitigation of climate change 
through providing effective platform s that offer decision -makers, opinion leaders and government and private 
sector leaders opportunit ies to forge synergies. We are confident that such platfo rms will offer a strong 
impetus to global efforts to minimize the impacts of climate change. Given this, the UAE will host the second 
Abu Dhabi Global Action Day in our capital city Abu Dhabi during t Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week in January 
2017. 
We strongly believe that it is imperative to build bridges of cooperation and engagement with the international 
community to encourage debates on the issue of climate change. I am also pleased to invite you to participate 
in the A bu Dhabi Climate Action Day and the World Government Summit that will be held in Dubai in February 
2017. The summit will include sessions focused on climate and food security, and promote joint initiatives 
and measures to address food security in the context of climate change. It will be an ideal opportunity to build 
partnerships and leverage our capabilities to ensure a promising future for us and for our coming generations . 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
Thank you for your attention. I wish you all a productive participation at COP22 and hope that we will continue 
to work collectively in addressing climate change. 
 
 
 