 
1 
 COP26 National statement 
 
 
Your Excellencies, Your Highnesses, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
It is an honor to represent my country here at the 26th session of the Conference of the 
Parties (COP 26), which takes place at a crucial time…. underlining the urgent need to 
accelerate climate action… for building a sustainable future. 
I thank the UK Presidency for hosting and chairing this conference… and for its efforts to 
strengthen our collective ambition for climate action. 
 
Let me first convey to you the warmest greetings from the leadership, government, and 
people of the United Arab Emirates . We approach this conference in a spirit of 
cooperation, dialogue and partnership , in the same way that we have welcomed the world 
to Expo 20 20 Dubai, where we are “connecting minds and creating the future. ” 
Honorable guests, 
Sustainable growth has long been an essential part of the UAE’s development journey, 
Our nation’s Founding Father, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, set out the principles 
of sustainability in all sectors. 
These principles have been integral to our nation’s efforts to protect the environment, 
diversifying energy sources, and developing po licies to reduce the impact of climate 
change. 
The effects of climate change are relevant to all nations… small or large... developed or 
developing… rich or poor. Today, there is an even more urgent need to redouble efforts 
and strengthen action to reduce emissions and adapt to the impact of climate change - 
through a realistic, inclusive and integrated approach that focuses on practical and 
commercially viable solutions … as well as the application of cutting -edge technology  a n d 
innovation. 
The UAE sees an opportunity for economic growth with positive social impacts through 
this approach to climate action. We must hold back emissions, not growth and 
progress. 
2 
 Ladies and gentlemen, 
We have entered a new era of transition in the energy sector. 
The UAE views this as an opportunity to focus on new paths towards the future… 
We believe that investing in low-carbon solutions in the energy sector will drive economic 
prosperity. 
Last month , the UAE launched the Net Zero by 2050 Strategic Initiative… 
This is in line with the vision of the UAE leadership and reflects the ambitions we have 
outlined for the ‘Next 50’ years of our nation. 
It was developed through a resilient, integrated approach focusing on the need for 
change… and ensuring the participation of all stakeholders to create an ambitious yet 
practical agenda. 
It is also an open invitation from the UAE to the world … for partnership and cooperation  
to find sustainable solutions… while creating incentives for economic growth . 
The UAE believes that this growth must be inclusive… 
Climate solutions should be flexible, taking into consideration the different needs of all. 
We  should avoid a one -size-fits-all approach. 
It has been many years since developed countries pledged $100 billion to support climate 
action in developing countries... Fulfilling this pledge will reduce the impacts of climate 
change and help developing nations adapt to it. 
In addition, there is a strong need to creat e an investment ecosystem to support 
sustainable growth. 
The UAE has been a pioneer in supporting developing countries to adopt renewable 
energy solutions… 
We have, for example, committed more than one billion dollars in development aid for 
clean energy projects in more than 70 countries. 
Alongside IRENA, headquarter ed in UAE, we have announced 400 million dollars in new 
funding for the Energy Transition Accelerator Platform, or ETAF… to boost investment 
and solutions in renewables. 
Further – alongside the United States and over 30 other countries, we have launched the 
Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate to accelerate innovation for agri -tech. 
3 
 The UAE has pledged – when it joins the UN Security Council for 2022 -23 - to make 
climate action a priority . 
 
The UAE has an impressive record in climate action, which helps establish an efficient 
ecosystem that comprise s all the elements necessary to scale innovation in this area, 
including capital, research and development, techn ology and project implementation and 
operation. The UAE has invested over $17 billion in clean energy projects in six continents 
around the world. 
(PAUSE FOR CLOSE) 
Honored Excellencies and Highnesses, ladies and gentlemen, 
As our nation celebrates its Gol den Jubilee this year , it also celebrates 50 years of 
sustainable growth. The United Arab Emirates is proud to have been endorsed as the hosts 
of COP28 in 2023 by the Asia Pacific Group of nations. 
For this, I would like to thank all our friends and partners.... 
We look forward to upcoming sessions and discussions in the next few days, anticipating 
your support - if the UAE is confirmed as the host of COP28 by the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. The UAE is h onored to welcom e all parties in 
2023 to work on developing practical solutions and make crucial progress on climate action 
Thank you. 