 The United States is pleased to be engaging with other Parties 
here at the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
 
 Let me extend my sincere appreciation to the Government of 
Fiji for its leadership in presiding over this COP, and to the 
Government of Germany and the City of Bonn for hosting th e 
Conference.  
 
 President Trump has made clear the U.S. position with respect 
to the Paris Agreement. Although he has indicated that the 
United States intends to withdraw at the earliest opportunity, we 
remain open to the possibility of re joining at a later date under 
terms more favorable to the American people. 
 
 Irrespective of our views on the Paris Agreement, the United 
States will continue to be a leader in clean energy and 
innovation, and we understand the need for transforming energy 
systems. 
 
 President Trump made this clear when the United States joined 
other G -20 countries in the G-20 Leaders’ Declaration in stating 
that we remain collectively committed to mitigating greenhouse 
gas emissions through, among other things , increased 
innovation on sustainable energ y and energy efficiency, and 
working towards low greenhouse gas emission s energy systems. 
 
 Our guiding principles are universal access to affordable and 
reliable energy, and open, competitive markets that promote 
 efficiency and energy security, not only for the United States 
but around the globe.  
 
 The United States will conti nue supporting a balanced approach 
to climate mitigation, economic development, and energy 
security that takes into consideration the realities of the global 
energy mix. 
 
 Over the past 10 years, the United States has shown that it can 
reduce emissions whil e growing the economy and promoting 
energy security. Since 2005, the United States’ net greenhouse 
gas emissions have decreased 11.5 percent while the U.S. 
economy has grown 15 percent, adjusted for inflation. 
 
 A large portion of these reductions have come as a result of the 
adoption by the private sector of innovative energy technologies 
–fostered by early stage innovation by the public sector. 
 
 Collaborative U.S. public and private efforts over the past ten 
years have resulted in dramatic decreases in the cost of low -
emissions technologies and fuels, including natural gas, solar, 
wind, energy storage, and energy efficiency. Natural gas prices 
have dropped to about a third of what they were in 2007 , and 
the cost of utility -scale solar PV has dropped by more than 64 
percent . 
 
 We want to work with other countries to continue advancing the 
development and deployment of a broad array of technologies 
that will ultimately enable us to achieve our climate and energy 
security goals.  
 
 Already , the United States is working bilaterally with countries 
such as China and India to advance power sector transformation 
 and smart grid technologies, energy efficien cy, and carbon 
capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) . 
 
 We are also engaged in many multilateral initiatives. 
 
 Through the Clean Energy Ministerial , we are engaging our 
national laboratories t o provide in -depth technical expertise 
to pursue new global opportunities to leverage the potential 
of advanced energy technologies including CCUS and 
nuclear energy. 
 
 Through our work with Power Africa, w e have catalyzed 
some $60 billion in energy investments that will provide 
modern energy services for roughly 30 0 million citizens 
across Africa by 2030. 
 
 And through the Caribbean Energy Security Initiative, we are 
working with island states to identify cost -effective options 
for using advanced energy technologies to diversify and 
strengthen their power systems and increase energy access. 
 
 Of course, we know that e ach country will need to determine 
the appropriate energy mix based on its particular 
circumstances, taking into account the need for energy security, 
promotion of economic growth , and environmental prot ection . 
 
 In that context, we want to support the cleanest, most efficient 
power generation , regardless of source. 
 
 Beyond energy, the United States will continue to help our 
partner countries reduc e emissions from fo rests and other lands, 
to adapt to the impacts of climate change, and to respond to 
natural disasters . 

  Our Sustainable Landscapes programs are helping partners to 
protect well over 2 million sq uare kilometers of forests and 
other landscapes, reducing more than 300 million ton s of CO 2 
equivalent emissions, while enhancing sustainable development, 
generating local livelihood opportunities, and protec ting 
biodiversity and water resources. 
 
 U.S. government technical agencies also continue to help 
partners improve their capacities to monitor and report on 
terrestrial carbon through the SilvaCarbon program. 
SilvaCarbon has helped countries conduct forest inventories, 
develop maps of forests and other ecosystems, and work to 
include f orests and other landscapes in national [greenhouse gas 
mitigation] strategies and targets . 
 
 In sum, the United States intends to remain engaged with our 
many partners and allies around the world on these issues, here 
in the U.N. Framework Convention and e verywhere else.  
 
 Thank you. 