 The momentum created in Paris is powerful, broad, and deep. 
 
 We have seen continued global momentum since Paris , including the Paris 
Agreement enter ing into force earlier than many parties had believed was 
possible.  
 
 Countries are moving. Parties all around the world are deeply invested in 
seeing this work bear real fruit. Countries all around the world, from m ajor 
economies like China to African countri es like the Zambia and Kenya , have 
begun the substantial work of translating their pre -Paris climate goals into 
operational policy on the ground. 
 
 For our part, President Obama and our Administration have made climate 
change a top priority for the last ei ght years. We have made significant 
strides to cut carbon pollution at home, help bolster our resilience to the 
impacts of climate change, and work with all of you to combat this global 
challenge. 
 
 I am very happy to tell you that, with policies in place today , the United 
States is on track to meet its targets under Cancun and well positioned to 
meet its targets under Paris. 
 
 The United States is rapidly transitioning to a clean energy economy. In the 
electricity sector – our largest emitter of carbon dio xide – wind generation 
has tripled and solar generation has increased 30 -fold due to dramatic 
decreases in costs. This is in large part the result of market -based changes 
that cannot be reversed. 
 
 Markets are moving. Prices for renewable energy are continu ing their 
dramatic fall all around the world, and in many cases renewables are now 
cheaper than fossil fuels . Banks and finance agencies are doing the needed 
work to allow private finance to where it can meet growing demand for 
low-carbon solutions. 
 
 Businesses are moving . U.S. business leaders are nearly unanimous in their 
view that the transition to clean energy provides vast economic growth 
potential and the transition to clean energy is inevitable. The clean energy 
industry in the U.S. now employs 2.5 million people, and in 2014 clean 
energy investment more than 5 times greater growth than the rest of the 
U.S. economy. U.S. businesses and investors see the potential, and are 
leading this global transition. 
 
 States and cities are moving . From Califo rnia to New England , from Miami 
to Portland , we are seeing the commitment of sub -national entities to do 
what they can to address this global challenge. 
 
 It’s not up to us to work with each other and build this momentum. Let’s 
move forward, and ensure that none of us fall behind. 
 
 I would like to end on a personal note. I started working in this process in 
1989, when the United States hosted the first preparatory meeting for the 
UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. I have worked in the 
negotiations an d implementation in various capacities over the last twenty 
seven years. I have seen ebbs and flows in progress on this issue over the 
years. I can tell you that I truly believe that, while we have many truly 
profound challenges to wrestle with, the moment um is now 
insurmountable. There is no stopping now. 
 