Mr. President,
Mr. Executive Secretary,
Excellencies,
More than three decades have passed since we began this process to stabilize greenhouse gasses to prevent dangerous climate change. Clearly something is not working as emissions increase, climate finance remains wholly inadequate, the 1.5 degree limit will soon be crossed, and the resulting climate injustice is suffered daily across the planet.
Fundamental human rights are being undermined, every minute of every day, by our collective addiction to fossil fuels.
Excellencies, it is time to fix this process. We must bring additional tools that will inspire the real State action that is required.
Vanuatu is of the view that States have existing legal obligations under a range of international laws to protect the rights of present and future generations from the adverse impacts of climate change.
The UNFCCC was not intended to operate in isolation, nor does it absolve any Party of their legal obligations under the other Treaties they have ratified.
Excellencies, Vanuatu, alongside a global coalition of more than 85 nations, is now calling for a legal review of international law from the United Nations International Court of Justice to help us make better climate decisions.
In just a few weeks, the UN General Assembly will vote on a Resolution requesting the world’s highest court to deliver an Advisory Opinion on climate change in order to inspire real action, to save the Goals of the Paris Agreement, and maintain the integrity of the UN Convention on Climate Change.

The International Court of Justice’s process is inclusive. All States will be invited to share their views on how to bring better international legal consistency and coherence to climate action. To strengthen Nationally Determined Contributions, we must strengthen our understanding of what international law already obliges us to do.
In this regard the objective of Vanuatu’s initiative is to transform the legal contexts in which we all act to protect human rights from climate harm.
The time has come for the International Court of Justice to consider climate change.
Our young people are demanding climate justice and intergenerational equity.
And so, I appeal in the strongest terms to all leaders here at COP27, to Vote in favor of the ICJ climate Resolution at the UN General Assembly so we can finally put human rights at the center of climate change decision-making.
I thank you, and may God Bless us all.