Please c heck against delivery 
 
 STATEMENT BY H.E. MR. PHAM MINH CHINH, 
PRIME MINISTER OF THE S.R. OF VIET NAM 
AT WORLD CLIMATE ACTION SUMMIT 
(Dubai, UAE, 2 December 2023 ) 
 
 
“Upholding international solidarity and joining hands in promoting the 
development and prosperity of humanity ” 
 
 
Mr. President, 
 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
 
At the outset, I would like to extend my congratulations to the UAE for its 
ever-greater stature and influence, and for the excellent arrangements and 
outcomes of the Summit. 
 
 
The global climate syste m is approaching its red line. In the hottest year in 
modern history, icebergs are melting faster than ever. Rising water levels, 
droughts, floods, landslides, erosions and forest fires are becoming more 
devastating. Many territories and communities are at risk of being swallowed up 
by the sea. Energy and food security is threatened, and development 
achievements are at risk of being undone. In addition, aging population and 
resource depletion are adding to the increasing challenges facing the world today. 
 
 
The gap between climate commitments and actions remains wide. 
Competition, division, fragmentation, wars, conflicts, and diseases are further 
dispersing much necessary resources for climate change. After 14 years, we still 
have not managed to fulfil the c ommitment of mobilizing $100 billion per year 
to combat climate change. We must turn our prior words into concrete actions, 
and make good on our promises. Such is the key to bolster trust among countries 
and address bottlenecks in the negotiations on clima te change. 
 
 
The impact of climate change and diseases in recent years has further 
proven that these are global, whole -of-population issues. Thus, we too need to 
adopt a new mindset, methodology, and approach that is more proactive, 
substantive, and effect ive, and together pursue global actions. Each country needs 
to take responsibility in best harnessing its internal strength, which is Please c heck against delivery 
 
 fundamental, strategic, long -term, and decisive, in conjunction with making the 
most of important external resources and u pholding multilateralism. It is 
necessary to consider the people and the world's common interests as the heart 
and goals of our endeavors, and ensure that no country or citizen is left behind. 
We should also strive to mobilize diverse resources from public and particularly 
private sectors, and build upon internal, external, bilateral, multilateral and other 
legal resources. 
 
 
Developed countries need to provide greater support to developing and 
least-developed countries. This includes preferential capital, transfer of advanced 
technology, high -quality human resource development, smart governance, and 
assistance in improving modern and effective market institutions in line with the 
unique circumstances of each country. 
 
 
At the same time , developing and least -developed countries cannot afford 
to be passive or overly dependent on external help. Instead, they need to improve 
their own capacity, pursue self -reliance and resilience, and self -improvement in 
the spirit of "no one can help you b etter than yourself". 
 
 
However, it is also necessary to ensure fairness and justice in climate 
action. That means ensuring national energy self -sufficiency and security, and 
effective access to affordable clean energy for all businesses, people, and 
count ries. 
 
 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
Viet Nam has been acting in high responsibility since COP26 in Glasgow. 
When the world continues to witness more challenges than opportunities, Viet 
Nam still strives to uphold its obligation towards the world and its popu lation 
through the comprehensive implementation of the following efforts: 
 
 
First, developing relevant plans and arranging for their implementation. 
These include (1) Climate change strategy; (2) Green growth strategy; (3) 8th 
Power Development Plan, with renewable energy accounting for a greater share 
in Viet Nam's energy mix; (4) Development of the renewable energy industry and 
a renewable energy ecosystem (entailing human resources, resources, planning, 
and relevant facilities...). 
 Please c heck against delivery 
 
 
Second, (1) implemen ting Viet Nam's Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDC); (2) establishing the Secretariat and launching the RMP for 
the implementation of the JETP; (3) adopting and implementing the Plan to 
allocate 1 million hectares for the cultivation of high -quality low-emission rice, 
particularly in terms of methane emission. 
 
 
Third, building relevant institutions, including the drafting of the Oil and 
Gas Law, and improvment of the Land Law and Electricity Law in ways that 
enable and support the development of rene wable energy. Viet Nam is also 
developing and finalizing the Decree on direct power purchase, so as to address 
renewable power projects and outstanding issues facing the people and businesses 
in the energy transition process. 
 
 
Distinguished delegates, 
 
Time waits for no one. Challenges are becoming more and more complex 
and unpredictable. Therefore, let us uphold greater unity, put in greater efforts, 
and work more effectively for the development and prosperity of mankind, the 
health of this planet, and ha ppiness for all around the globe. 
 
 
Thank you. /. 