                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Republic of Zambia 
 
 
 
 
ZAMBIA’S STATEMENT TO THE TWENTY THIRD SESSION OF THE 
CONFERENCE OF PARTIES (COP -23) TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK 
CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC), DELIVERED BY HON. JEAN 
KAPATA, MP,   MINISTER OF LANDS AND NATURAL RESOURCES 
 
 
 
BONN, GERMANY 
 
 
 
 
 
NOVEMBER 2017
2 
  Your Excellency Mr. Voreqe Bainimarama, The Prime Minister 
of Fiji and also the COP 23 President, 
 Your Excellency, the United Nations Secretary General, Mr. 
Antonio Gutierrez, 
 The Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate C hange, Ms Patricia Espinosa, 
 Fellow Ministers present, 
 Heads of Delegations; 
 Distinguished delegates . 
 
On behalf of the Zambian Government, allow me to join the other 
speakers before me to congratulate you, Your Excellency, and 
through you the people of Fi ji for convening this important 
Conference under the climate Change Convention. This is indeed 
unprecedented and historical as Fiji is among the most vulnerable 
countries and fully understand the challenges that we face. 
 
I wish to assure you of my country ’s total support in ensuring that 
this Conference succeeds in delivering tangible outcomes that 
would enhance the implementation of the Convention and 
strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change. 
 3 
 Your Excellency, 
My Government is deeply concerned that climate change poses a 
serious threat to our survival and has potential to reverse the 
developmental gains that the country has achieved so far. There is 
a growing risk of adverse climate change and catastrophic impac t, 
particularly in Agriculture, Water and Sanitation, Energy, 
infrastructure and Health sectors. For instance, the recent 
variability and unpredictable nature of the climate has also 
undermined critical sectors of the economy such as agriculture, 
which has resulted in reduced agricultural productivity and 
perennial food shortages. 
 
In the energy sector, the decreased rainfall experienced in the past 
few years has resulted in reduced water levels in our major water 
bodies. This has led to the power deficit a nd subsequent load 
shedding through rationing power usage as the country depends 
largely on hydropower. Consequently, there has been a resultant 
loss of productivity in critical sectors of the economy such as 
Mining, Manufacturing and Agriculture. 
 
 
 4 
 Your Excellency, 
 
My Government has taken the challenge of climate change 
seriously and we have put in place a National Policy on Climate 
Change of 2016. The Policy provides a framework for a coordinated 
response in addressing this challenge. In addition, Clima te Change 
has been mainstreamed in our five-year national development Plan 
that runs from 2017 to 2021. 
 
We therefore call for the recognition of the Country’s efforts in 
addressing climate change through the provision of support for the 
implementation of both our Nationally Determined Contribution 
and adaptation priorities; 
 
Your Excellency, 
 
Let me now share the expectations of my Government from this 
important Conference: 
 
 
 5 
  We expect Parties to continue building on the momentum 
gathered in Marrakech last year in defining the modalities, 
procedures and guidelines for the effective implementation of 
the Paris Agreement; in this regard, it is our view that we 
quickly move to text based negotiation to ensure a smooth 
completion and adoption of these moda lities, procedures and 
guidelines by COP 24; 
 
 Zambian looks forward to the Facilitative Dialogue that will 
take stock of our collective efforts of Parties in relation to 
progress made towards achieving the long term global goal 
on Climate change; 
 
 My Government calls on this Conference to focus on finalising 
discussion on the sources and inputs for a Dialogue taking 
into account both pre 2020 and post 2020 obligations; 
 
 It is also important to my Government to be clear on what will 
constitute the outco me of the facilitative dialogue and how 
this will be taken forward; 
 6 
  Scaled up provision of financial support to developing 
countries such as Zambia to implement their Nationally 
Determined Contributions (NDCs) and other obligations under 
the Convention an d its Kyoto Protocol and the Paris 
Agreement. 
 
Finally, Your Excellency, 
 
As I conclude, our expectation is that the outcome at this important 
Conference will provide political re -assurance and catalyse global 
action to minimize the adverse climate change impacts. I wish to 
assure you of Zambia’s commitment in supporting your presidency 
during your tenure. 
 
I thank you. 
 
 
 
 
 