1 
 Your Majesty Mohammed VI, King of Morocco, 
Your Excellency, Uni ted Nations Secretary General, 
 Mr Ban Ki -Moon, 
The Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework 
 Convention on Climate Change, Ms Patricia Espinosa, 
Excellencies, Heads of State and Government, 
Honourable Ministers, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Comrades and Friends. 
 
Your Majesty, 
I wish to congratulate you, Your Majesty, and the people of the 
Kingdom of Morocco for assuming the Presidency of COP 22. 
This Conference will be decisive in providing the foundations and 
in giving the essential orientations to the implementation of the 
Paris Agreement . 
 
Excellencies, 
Zimbabwe has welcomed the Paris Climate Change Agreement 
as a stepping stone towards tangible action in adapting to and 2 
 mitigating the climate change challenges the world currently 
faces. Zimbabwe , which is in the process of ratifying the Paris 
Climate Agreement, is determined to expedite the ratification 
process and to complete it in the shortest time possible. 
 
My country is committed to play ing its part in combating climate 
change impacts. We have, through our Intended Nationally 
Determined C ontributions, committed to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions in the country by 33 per cent per ca pita, by 2030. I have 
established a multi -stakeholder High Level Committee on 
Climate Change whose responsibility is to ensure the coordinated 
and effective implementation and monitoring of our Nationall y 
Determined Contributions. 
 
Excellencies, Distinguished D elegates, 
Climate change is a reality that is daily taking its toll on the 
livelihoods of the majority of our people. As we meet here today, 
the water situation in my country is dire. Dam levels are 
precariously low due to the effects of the current El Nino -induced 
drought. Water rationing has been introduced for some 
communities , while others traverse punishing distances in search 3 
 of this vitally precious liquid. The water scarcity has not spared 
both the domesticated animals and those in the wilderness. Food 
insecurity has increased due to reduced agricultural productivity 
as a result o f recurrent droughts. 
 
When we, as developing countries, call fo r priority to be accorded 
to adaptation , or that there be parity in the attention given to 
adaptation and mitigation, we do so because it is a matter of life 
and death. A dead person cannot m itigate for climate change . 
 
Excellencies , 
The Paris Climate Change Agreement, while universal in its 
application , strongly upholds the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities. In elaborating the ground rules for 
the implementation of this Agreement, this cardinal principle 
must, in no way, be diluted or qualified. It is our expectation , 
therefore, that the implementation of the Paris Climate Change 
Agreement will contribute to the realization of the equally 
universal agreement on the Sustainable Development Goals . 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 4 
 
The impleme ntation of the Nationally Determined Contributions , 
is not an opportunity for our developed -country partners to seek 
to frustrate our development prospects , through the imposition of 
conditionalities or intrusive and punitive mechanisms . Neither 
should it be an opportunity to seek to dispropor tionately bu rden 
the developing countries.  
 
Excellencies, 
Past tendencies towards impositions and dictating to others by 
highly industrialised countries, must give way to partnership and 
equitable solutions. Let’s not squander t he Paris Agreement 
through old bad habits. 
 
I thank you. 
 
RGM/jm 
 
 
 