0 
 
 
STATEMENT 
 
BY THE 
 
 
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE, 
HIS EXCELLENCY, DR. E . D. MNANGAGWA, 
 
AT THE 
 
 
SHARM EL -SHEIKH CLIMATE 
IMPLEMENTATION SUMMIT 
 
 
8 NOVEMBER 2022 
 
 
 
 1 
 Your Excellency , Abdel El Fattah El Sisi , President of the 
Arab Republic of Eg ypt 
 
Excellencies , Heads of State and Government 
 
Your Excellency, Mr. Antonio Guterres, Secretary -
General of the United Nations, 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen.  
 
We meet at a time when the impact of climate c hange 
continues destroying people’s lives and livelihoo ds in 
every part of the world. It is opportune that this COP27 is 
being held on the Africa n Continent. Our voice must be 
heard, as too, should our demands and expectations.     
We must unite as a Continent and speak with one voice. 
There is need for c oncrete actions. T hose mostly 
responsible for the climate crisis must listen and prioritize 
climate finance to help prevent disasters and climate 
victims recover. Commitments we have made and 
continue to make, can only make a difference when we 
act on them .          2 
 Mr. President, the agriculture sector which is key to 
Zimbabwe’s economy is facing a serious threat from 
climate change. My government is implementing various 
programmes , including extensive dam construction 
projects towards climate cha nge adaptation and mitigation 
for sustainable food and nutrition security.        
Further, Zimbabwe is e xpanding the production and use 
of renewable energy .  
 
Zimbabwe will see greenhouse gas emissions curbed to 
44.7 million to nnes of carbon dioxide by 2030.       
My country has also integrated gender i ssues in the 
Revised Nationally Determined Contributions . 
 
Greater progress would be made on our climate goals 
were it not for the albatross of illegal economic sanctions 
imposed on our country. We demand the immediate 
lifting of the se unwarranted and punitive sanctions . 
 3 
 Zimbabwe is committed “to be a friend to all and an 
enemy to none” , and we are ready to play our part in 
addressing climate change and other challenges that face 
our world. 
 
In conclusion, at this COP 27, let us from the developing 
world act as a countermanding bloc of victims of climate 
change. We need to negotiate and vote in a block, through 
the Group of 77 plus China. Only then are we likely to 
carry the day. We can and must , act now to secure a 
healthy planet for the present and future generations.  
 
I thank you. 