 
STATEMENT 
 
BY 
 
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF 
ZIMBABWE 
 
HIS EXCELLENCY, DR. E. D. MNANGAGWA, 
 
AT THE 
 
WORLD CLIMATE ACTION SUMMIT AT THE 
COP 28 
 
1-2 DECEMBER 2023 
 
1 
 Your Excellency, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al 
Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates , 
Excellencies, Heads of State and Government , 
Your Excellency, Mr. Antonio Guterres, Secretary -
General of the United Nations, 
Ladies and Gentlemen. 
Allow me to express my sincere gratitude to the 
Government and the People of the United Arab Emirates 
for successfully hosting th is COP28 and for the 
hospitality extended to me and my delegation since our 
arrival . 
 
I also wish to congratulate Sultan Al Jaber for his election 
as the COP28 President and assure him of my country’s  
utmost support during his tenure. 
 
Excellencies, 
Zimbabwe, like ma ny other nations , continue s to suffer 
from the negative socio -economic impacts of increased 2 
 frequency of droughts, heightened intensity of tropical 
cyclones, and other severe weather events. 
 
There is need for stronger international cooperation and 
collaboration in the response to these climate change 
induced weather fluctuations. No country can adapt to or 
mitigate these impacts alone . The ambitious emissions 
reductions expected from developed countries are urgent 
and critical to prevent a climate catastrophe .     
 
The Paris Agreement establis hed the foundation, and we 
must now boldly come up with more ambitious emission 
reduction goals. A just transition, accompanied by 
comprehensive financial and technological support to 
developing countries, remain priorit ies. This is critical to 
ensure that vulnerable communities and workers in 
traditional industries are not left behind and that the 
transition benefits all, while also creating decent green 
jobs and promoting social and economic stability. 
 3 
 A radical shift, backed by creative thinking and new 
development models that fundamentally enhance climate 
resilience are of necessity as we propel and mainstream 
decarbonization. The global economic system, the ways 
we produce and consume, and the resources we use to 
suppo rt economic growth must all undergo drastic 
change s in order to meaningfully implement the goals of 
the Paris Agreement. 
 
Excellencies, 
Zimbabwe is walking the talk on its revised Nationally 
Determined Contribution s. We recently completed the 
development of our national carbon credit framework 
which will guide players, benefit communities and protect 
investors who wish to establish carbon trade -related 
projects in the country. We are offering diverse 
opportunities for car bon trading in the energy sector 
through investments in solar, wind, mini -hydro and 
geothermal power generation. 4 
 The landmark agreement with Blue Carbon, of the UAE is 
set to further enhance our nature -based carbon offset 
strategies. Such alliances are tr ansforming how we 
perceive and utilise our vast forest resources . 
 
The illegal economic sanctions imposed on our country 
are inadvertently hindering climate action by impeding 
progress in our quest to address environmental challenges. 
We reiterate our call s for the immediate and unconditional 
lifting of these sanctions. 
 
Excellencies, 
Investments in research and development as well as 
technology and innovation wi ll be our allies in this battle 
to create new solutions to address climate change. Aspects 
related to sustainable methods for increased agricultur e 
production and productivity remain essential to our ability 
to feed ourselves. 
 5 
 We welcome t he first Global Stocktake at this COP28 
which should help us t o continuously review, improve and 
transparently disclose our climate plans.  
 
This COP 28 is called upon to persist in the mobilization 
of resources and adopting clear strategies for achieving 
the promised US$100 billion climate finance. 
Let us all fulfil our responsibilities and use t his gathering 
as another opportunity to carve out a sustainable future 
for the generations to come. 
 
May history remember us as those who took bold and 
resolute action to preser ve our planet. 
I thank you . 