1 
 
ZIMBABWE 
 
 
REMARKS BY 
 
 
 
 
THE MINISTER OF WATER AND CLIMATE 
 
 
 
HONOURABLE OPPAH. C.Z. MUCHINGURI -KASHIRI (MP) 
 
 
 
AT 
 
 
 
COP 2 3 
 
 
 
Bonn , Germany 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
  Your Excellency, The President of COP23, H.E. Frank 
Bainimarama 
 The Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, Ms Patricia Espinosa, 
 Hono urable Ministers , 
 Distinguished D elegates, 
 Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
Your Excellency, 
Allow me to extend my congr atulations to the Go vernment of Fiji 
through you, H.E. Mr Frank Bainimarama for the excellent 
organisation of the Twenty -third United Nations Conference on 
Climate Change (COP 2 3). I would also like to extend my 
congratulations to His Excellency , Mr Salaheddine Mezouar for 
successfully hosting the Twenty -third United Nations Conference on 
Climate Change (COP 2 2) which initiated discussions on the 
implementation modalities for the Paris agreement. 
 
The Zimbabwe Government views climate change as a serious issue 
and a matter that needs urgent attention . My count ry has ratifi ed the 
Paris Agreement and now a Party to this crucial treaty . We view t he 
Paris Agreement as a stepping stone towards tangible action in 
addressing the climate change challenge facing the world today. We 
need to move with speed to finalise th e development of the rulebook 
for implementation of this Agreement. 3 
 Zimbabwe has been a party to the Kyoto Protocol since 2009 following 
the ratification of the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 1992. The country has been me eting its 
obligations under the two legal instruments . After joining the rest of 
the world in spelling out our Intended Nationally Determined 
Contributions to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change , the country has embarked on the development of the 
implementation framework for NDCs which we anticipate to present 
during the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue. The country has undertaken to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the energy sector by 33% per 
capita by 2030, provide d the technology and financial flows are 
positive. 
 
A High Level Coordination Committee for implementation of NDCs 
that is chaired by the Office of President and Cabinet continues to 
provide guidance on development of policies, strategies and 
frameworks for implementation modalities . This High Level 
Coordination Committee will ensure successful implementation and 
monitoring of our contributions, taking cognisance of the seriousness 
and cross cutting nature of the Nationally Determined Contributions. 
 
We would like to see t he Paris Agreement upholding the principle of 
common but differentiated responsibilities in light of national 
circumstances. We believe that climate action in developing countries 
should be backed by strong financial support from the developed 4 
 world which is responsible for the bulk of historical greenhouse gas 
emissions . 
 
Access to climate finance remains a challenge to Zimbabwe and most 
of the developing world as the Green Climate Fund which is the main 
funding mechanism of the UNFCCC, remains slow in pro cessing 
applications and the disbursement of resources. Our GCF Readiness 
Proposal was approved more than a year ago, but up to date, GCF has 
not released the funds. We need to see a change in the way these 
funds are handled and simplification of the GCF p rojects approval and 
funds disbursement process es. 
 
Climate change is real as demonstrated by its impacts which have 
caused damage to infrast ructure, de aths, loss of li fe, wildlife and 
livestock, reduced agricultural productivity, and resulted in rural 
communities especially women walking long distances in search of the 
depleted water resources. 
 
The 2015/2016 rainfall season witnessed rains that were far from 
adequate for dryland crop agriculture and the country had to use 
more than 200 million USD to import maize. Energy generation at our 
biggest hydropower generation plant, Kariba Power Station sunk to its 
lowest in more than two decades. The 2016/2017 season brought with 
it rains that were way above normal together with cyclone Din eo 
which caused extensive flooding in parts of the country . 5 
 
Water resources are central to the Zimbabwean economy and the 
region at large. The people’s livelihoods and social wellbeing hinges 
around water, but availability and reliability of water is a fu nction of 
the highly variable climatic conditions. This has affected the 
production and productivity of the agricultural sector and continues 
to threaten food security in the region. 
 
Your Excellency, 
 
As we p repar e for the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue , we should ensure 
that the pre -2020 emissions gap and associated impacts of such a gap 
on developing countries are properly addressed. We should call upon 
developed countries to explore opportunities to close the gap and 
address the associated impacts, includ ing through a facility to finance 
emission reductions in developing countries in the run -up and beyond 
2020. 
 
Zimbabwe intends to follow low carbon development despite our low 
capacity to manage climate related risks and limited capacity to meet 
new global obligations that require systematic tracking of emissions 
and subsequently reducing them. 
 
 
 6 
 Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, 
 
Adaptation remains an essential and growing priority and there is an 
urgent need for immediate and adequate support for adaptation 
efforts. Zimbabwe views the climate adaptation challenge seriously 
and that the Paris Agreement under the neg otiations can only be 
meaningful to Africa if commitments to support adaptation have 
legally binding provisions. 
 
We want to see the commitments translated into real action to ensure 
the resilience of livelihoods as we endeavour to leave behind a cleaner 
and healthy environment for the future generations. 
 
I thank you. 
 
 