
Mrs.	President, 	Excellencies, 	Heads	of	Delegations, 	Ladies	and	Gentlemen, 	
On behalf of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanis tan, I have the pleasure to 
thank COP25 President  Ms. Carolina Schmidt Zaldivar, the UNFCCC Secretariat and in 
particular the Government of the Kingdom of Spain for stepping in and making COP25 happen. 

Honourable delegates, 

Afghanistan strives to play an active role in implementing clim ate action and is working 
towards a low emission development path. To this end, we have a lready started to integrate 
climate change and sustainable development in our national deve lopment agendas despite the 
challenging situation we face. Such actions are constrained by the negative consequences of 
conflict and instability that directly undermine sustainable de velopment efforts. For instance, 
due to the recent deadly attack that prevented international or ganizations from attend the first 
structured GCF policy-level dialogue convened by the National Environmental Protection 
Agency of Afghanistan on the 25th of November this year. However , t h e G o v e r n m e n t o f 
Afghanistan is firmly committed to this matter and with our gro wing human capital and 
expertise, we have taken deliberate steps towards climate actio n. On the legal and policy level, 
we have completed our Second National Communication and first Biennial Update Report to 
the UNFCCC and have started work on our Third National Communic ation. We have 
communicated our Nationally Dete rmined Contributions, supported by formulation of 
Afghanistan’s Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan, and have initiated the process for 
revision of our National Adaptation Plan. As part of our recent ly approved five-years action 
plan on air pollution, we will reform the public transport syst em, institute a mandatory tree 
planting scheme starting in 2021, improve management of coal us e as an energy source and 
increase the supply of clean energy sources such as solar and w ind power. All of these actions 
will serve to reduce Afghanistan’s emissions of greenhouse gasses, which are anyway far 
below the global average on a per capita basis.  

Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Limiting global warming to 1.5°C will necessitate substantial changes to all facets of society 
across the world. To achieve our common objectives for a resili ent and sustainable future, all 
nations must act boldly and ambitiously, in particular by helpi ng the most vulnerable and least 
developed countries. Moreover, countries in conflict that are m ost vulnerable to the climate 
crisis will require a special measure of support. To accelerate implementation, access to 
existing mechanisms for climate action needs to be streamlined and simplified. This last point 
 has been repeatedly highlighted under the long-term climate fin ance workstream, and is 
particularly relevant for countries such as ours that struggle with instability and conflict 
undermining our actions on this global climate emergency. Currently, access to climate finance 
is painfully slow. 

Distinguished delegates, 

There are a number of prerequis ites without which we fear that the necessary action will not 
take place. Firstly, we need global consensus on enhanced and a mbitious climate action – 
action which we have to take now. Developed countries need to l ead the way in this endeavour, 
showing how fully industrialised economies can be decarbonised to mitigate future climatic 
changes. 

Secondly, developed country Parties committed through the Cancu n Agreements in 2010 to 
jointly mobilize USD 100 billion per year by 2020 to address th e needs of developing countries. 
Such commitments need to be fully delivered if developing count ries are to continue to expand 
their efforts to limit global climate change and adapt to its i mpacts. Moreover, I would like to 
remind you that 2020 is not the end mark – future ambitious com mitments need to continue to 
be made. 

Finally, I must reiterate, access to existing mechanisms for cl imate action needs to be 
streamlined and simplified if we a re to accelerate implementati on of low emissions and 
climate-resilient development pathways.

Ladies and Gentlemen, 

To conclude, I would like to thank all delegates for their part icipation in COP25. We confirm 
our Government’s strong commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement and all 
further steps needed to limit the long-term global temperature increase to 1.5°C. We join our 
hands together with those of all other nations to address clima te change in unity, for a resilient, 
sustainable and prosperous future. 

Thank you! 