Mr. Chairman, 
Excellences, 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
Let me express my gratitude to the Government of Germany for hosting and the excellent 
organization of the Climate Conference, and Fiji Presidency for leadership. 

From the date of entering into force of the Paris Agreement only one year has passed, 
however we are witn essing unprecedented interest to climate change issues in our society. 

We need to make sure that the rules we are going to adopt foster the implementation of 
the Agreement in the most ambitious manner, at the same time taking into full 
consideration the corresponding needs and capacities of the Parties. 

In that context the upcoming 2018 sets number of deadlines for Countries -Parties to the 
Paris Agreement to deliver well balanced, detailed, measurable and transparent action 
plans for implementation of contributions defined in Intended Nationally Determined 
Contributions. 

Armenia, as a landlocked developing country needs to have clear guidance on appropriate 
modalities, means of technical, technological and financial support for undertaking 
substantial amo unt of work domestically for early start of actions in adaptation and 
mitigation as stated under NDCs. 

Armenia, remaining committed to low -carbon development strategy, following its 
quantified commitments for limitation of the growth of greenhouse gases is undertaking 
tangible steps to increase the share of renewable energy use, and reduction of carbon 
intensity of the GDP. 

Moreover, Armenia ratified the Doha ame ndment to Kyoto Protocol , as we consider that we 
have to nurture the result based financing mec hanisms for supporting mitigation actions. 

Our main aim is to offer our citizens not only clean, secure but also affordable energy, and 
we recognize that it can be achieved if domestic efforts would be complemented with 
international cooperation mechanisms under the Convention. 

However, Armenia as the other landlocked mountainous countries with scarce natural 
resources is facing adverse impacts of the climate change in different sectors of the 
economy. The average annual temperature has increased by 1,23 degrees Celsius, which 
means that we need to enhance adaptive capacity for ensuring sustainable future. 

In addition, the aridization of climate is posing challenge to key important sector of 
economy - agriculture, which ensures employment for more than 45% of population. We 
trust that agriculture adaptation support mechanisms will be dully considered in upcoming 
decisions under the Paris Agreement. 

Furthermore , Armenia has set ambitious target for forestry sector - to double by 2050 the 
current forest cover of the country . To achieve this goal, Armenia is trying to combine 
several financial and partnership instruments including green private investments, Debt for 
Nature Swap and REDD+. 
 
One of the successful example s on our implementation path is the world’s first National 
SDG Innovation Lab that was opened on November 14, 2017. 
 
Mr. Chairman 
 
For the delegation of Azerbaijan I would like to recall that the Republic of Artsakh /Nagorno 
Karabakh Republic/ has gained its Independence within the same legal framework as 
Azerbaijan did. Therefore, if Azerbaijan is sincerely concerned about the climate and 
environmental issues and would like to find solution to those problems, they should engage 
in genuine talks with the Government of the Artsakh Republic, instead of abusing each and 
every forum with false accusations, distortion of facts and history and anti -Armenian 
propaganda. In this regard, I would like to recall the readiness of the Government of 
Artsakh, expressed on numerous occasions to cooperate on such issues. 
 
Excellences, 
 
The Government of the Republic of Armenia emphasizes the importance of the integration 
of economic, climate and environmental policies and strategies, and states that green 
investments are necessary not only from environmental point of view but at the same time 
are profitable and economically efficient. 
   
Thank you for your attention. 