Mister/Madam President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me at the outset thank the Kingdom of Morocco for hosting this important 
conference after the landmark Paris Climate Summit last year. This is not the first 
time Parties have gathered here in the beautiful ci ty of Marrakesh – fifteen years ago 
the well-known “Marrakesh Accords”, the rulebook fo r the implementation of the 
Kyoto Protocol, were sealed here. 
 
Mister/Madam President, 
History was made in Paris at the end of last year. And the political momentum and 
drive in the climate process has continued in 2016, crowned by the rapid entry into 
force of the Paris Agreement. This was a common eff ort of Parties from all over the 
globe. I am proud that Austria was among those Part ies whose deposit of the 
instrument of ratification on October 5 triggered the entry into force of the 
Agreement. 
 
This year has also seen substantial progress relate d to climate policies in other fora: 
The Kigali Amendment on the phase out of HFCs marked a significant contribution 
towards the targets of the Paris Agreement. I am glad that we were able to contribute 
substantially to the preparation for this Amendment to the Montreal Protocol in 
Vienna. The International Civil Aviation Organizati on has adopted a Global Market 
Based Measure, reducing the greenhouse gas emission from international aviation. 
Furthermore first results to reduce emissions from international shipping have been 
reached. I am convinced that these recently achieved positive outcomes will speed 
up the further work of the international community. 
 
All these steps are important –but they are just th e starting point. We all must do 
more – and in fact much more – going forward. Meeting the global 2 degrees or 
indeed the 1.5 degrees target requires the phase ou t of fossil fuels by mid-century 
and – in parallel – a significant reduction of over all energy consumption. We have to 
speed up our efforts on energy efficiency. At the same time, the transition to 
renewable forms of energy must be dramatically acce lerated. 
 
It is essential that the world works together in achieving this energy transition. This 
needs global and regional cooperation. Within the European Union I have proposed 
a common European legal framework for energy transition, a European Energy 
Transition Protocol. 
 
Austria is well underway in meeting its targets in the share of renewable energies. 
We are in fact close to meeting the target of a 34% share of renewables in final 
energy consumption for 2020 already today. In addition, we are in the process of 
developing a national Integrated Climate and Energy Strategy for 2030 and beyond. 
But we are not only active at home, we are also actively supporting others, including 
through climate finance. Austria has been scaling u p climate finance annually for five 
consecutive years now. We contribute to the Green Climate Fund and are part of the 
group of donors that just published the “Roadmap to the one hundred billion”.  
 
Mister/Madam President, 
The breakthrough we all achieved in Paris has put even more focus on climate-
related measures at all levels. The interest of the business sector in dealing with the 
challenges and opportunities of climate change is continuously increasing. I 
commend the Moroccan Presidency for moving forward the involvement of the 
business sector in our common efforts, which was st arted in Lima and carried on in 
Paris. I am very pleased that Austrian companies an d research institutions are 
present in the huge Green Zone here in Marrakesh sh owing innovative solutions and 
possible future means to deal with the enormous cha llenges we face. 
 
Let us join forces together upholding the spirit of Paris; let us make the Marrakech 
conference the success we owe future generations! 
 
Thank you! 