
At the outset, let me congratulate you on your election as the President of COP25 and I am
confident that you will steer the meeting to successful outcomes. We also thank the Kingdom of
Spain for the warm hospitality and excellent arrangements made for the conference at such short
notice. Madam president, this confirms the faith of multilateralism and cooperation in climate
action.
My delegation associates with the statement by the State of Palestine for G77 & China.
Allow me also, to express appreciation to the UN Secretary General, Mr. Antonio Guterres
for convening UN Climate Action Summit on September 23, 2019 in New York. The Climate Action
Summit mobilized political support and youth initiatives on the issues concerning lack of
adequate climate action by the governments.
Madam President,
The world is not on track to achieve the goal of 1.50C of the Paris Agreement. We need to
take significant, bold and immediate action. The time is running out. COP25 must deliver a
decision to raise ambition that solidifies 2020 as the year of increased ambition and enhanced
implementation.
Madam President,
Bhutan has taken a disproportionate share of the responsibilities to limit climate change
and we reiterate our commitment to remain carbon neutral as outlined in our NDC. Bhutan plans
to update NDCs and prepare long terms low emission climate resilient development strategy in

2020. For Bhutan, addressing climate change is not about saving Bhutan or any country but for a
far bigger cause that is for the survival of our planet. We therefore, call on the international
community to support our action.
Madam President,
I wish to underscore that Bhutan is highly vulnerable as a “land-locked” country with a
“fragile and mountainous ecosystem” and is among the most vulnerable countries to the adverse
impacts of climate change such as extreme weather condition, accelerated glacier retreat, Glacial
lake Outburst Floods (GLOF), windstorms, propensity of forest fires and landslides. Climate change
threatens our hydropower dependent economy and the livelihood of the vast majority of our
population who are subsistence farmers. Bhutan’s special needs and circumstances are already
recognized under article 4.8 and 4.9 of the convention. Therefore, the treatment for special
circumstances must be inclusive in implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement.
As we approach the final week of the COP25, lots need to be done to conclude remaining
work for implementing Paris Agreement. We must speed up to deliver ambitious, concrete and
enhanced climate action and supports. For Bhutan, negotiation must deliver concrete decision on
loss and damage, robust rule for implementation of market and non-market mechanism that
ensures environmental integrity and enhanced financial support for climate action.
Madam President
Bhutan remains committed to the principles and objectives of the Convention and Paris
Agreement and call on all Parties to be flexible, open and constructive to deliver a strong climate
action and support. Our actions of today will go a long way towards securing a green and
sustainable future for generations to come.
Thank you and Tashi Delek