At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. President on your election as the President 
of COP28. On b ehalf of the Bhutanese delegation, I thank the Government of UAE for 
the coordination and warm hospitality. Our appreciation also goes to the UNFCCC 
Secretariat for the excellent conduct of the meetings.  
 
We have come with high expectations from COP28. From the first GST, we look to 
course correction on actions to limit the temperature rise below 1.5o celsius and bring 
about a step change in how we drive adaptation and the means of implementation. 
Bhutan welcomes the adoption of the establishment of the Loss and Damage Fund and 
calls for the adoption of a robust decision on the Framework for the Global Goal on 
Adaptation, here in Dubai. 
 
Under the visionary leadership of our Kings, Bhutan has always demonstrated and 
continues to take global leadership in environmental stewardship and is among the first 
countries to pledge carbon neutrality. Let me take this opportunity to thank all our 
development partners in our journey and request for continued support for the smooth 
transition, as Bhutan prepares to gra duate from the LDC category. 
 
Despite our efforts, as a highly vulnerable country in a fragile mountain ecosystem and 
a high dependence on climate -sensitive sectors, Bhutan is bearing the brunt of climate 
change at no fault of ours. We are witnessing increasing occurrences of flash floods, 
landslides, and erratic rainfalls during the summer, while winter is getting warmer with 
disappearing water sources and snow. This affects the livelihoods of not just our 
communities but also threatens millions of liveli hoods in the communities downstream. 
 
The latest IPCC reports confirms that the slightest temperature rise will have 
detrimental effects on mountain regions, particularly the glaciers and cryosphere. 
Warming in mountain regions is several times faster than the global average, posing 
significant risks including Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF). Therefore, we 
reiterate our submissions on mountain issues including the call for a dialogue on 
mountains and climate change. 
 
In reaffirming our commitment, we have submitted our first National Adaptation Plan 
(NAP) including our first Adaptation Communication (ADCOM), LTS and elaborated 
our low emission development strategies (LEDS). In all these, we have considered 
interlinkages across sectors and synergies betw een adaptation and mitigation to ensure 
safeguarding and climate proofing our development efforts. At Dubai this week, Bhutan 
launched the National Carbon Registry and Bhutan Climate Fund that will facilitate its 
strategic entrance into the carbon market. 
 
 Mr. President 
 
While Bhutan welcomes the renewed hope of scaling up climate finance under your 
Presidency, we would like to reiterate that climate finance must be adequate, 
predictable, easily accessible, and sustainable based on the priorities and needs of the 
most vuln erable countries. Committed countries that have provided leadership in 
climate action must also be recognized. We call -on world leaders, investors, 
governments, multinational donors, International NGOs, and the private sectors to 
reinforce the much -needed climate finance commitments including the US$100 billion 
commitment by 2025. 
 
In conclusion, Bhutan remains committed to undertaking actions on climate change in 
line with the Convention and the Paris Agreement. We call upon all Parties to be 
flexible, ada ptable, open, and constructive to work collectively towards saving the 
planet from catastrophic disasters. We hope that COP28 will guarantee a smooth 
transition to actual implementation without any further delays. There is no better time 
than now to deliver the commitments. 
 
Thank you and tashi delek. 