Mr. President, 
Your Excellencies, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
It is an honor to address the 26th Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. I would like to 
thank the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland for organizing this forum in extremely difficult times 
of global pandemic and to express my strong appreciation to the 
President of COP 26 Mr. Alok Sharma for the constructive dialogue 
involving all stak eholders . 
The last IPCC1 report contains scientific evidences that the more 
frequent extreme weather events , we are witnessing across the planet , 
are a clear sign that the planetary warming is accelerating and is already 
affecting many aspects of our lives, economies and ecosystems. Our 
presence here today means that we realize how important it is to work 
together and that more credible action s are needed by all countries and 
by every one of us to limit the temperature rising . 
 
In this context, Bulgaria is completely determined to fulfill its 
commitments to the Paris Agreement. Along with the other EU member 
states Bulgaria will work for reaching the goal of climate neutrality by 
2050 and for the more ambitious goal of 55% reduction of greenhouse 
gas emissions by 2030, which is enshrined in the EU legislation. 
At a national level, we have developed an entirely new set of measures 
in our Recovery and Resilience Plan. It will become a new roadmap for 
decarb onisa tion of the Bulgarian industry, and for reaching economic 
growth within a sustainable and preserved environment, which 
includes phasing out of coal use by 2038 - 2040. Our efforts are focused 
on three main goals : accelerated further development of renewable 
energy sources and hydrogen ; increase of the energy efficiency of the 
economy, and sustainable mobility. 
All the measures that will lead to the green transition are carried out in 
the economic reality of today - the reality of an unprecedented 
pandemic and rising energy prices. Our main concern is the risk of job 
losses and the energy security of our country as we believe that only a 
performing and vital economy can be transformed . Therefore, the 
national features should be taken into account for a fair and 
proportionate approach . 
Bulgaria supports the united efforts of governments , private sector , 
academia and other stakeholders in our common goal to fight climate 
change . No country alone is able to face the global threat of climate 
change, because we don’t have the option or luxury of failure. 
Let us join in our efforts to reach a new consensus among all countries 
on the necessary climate action s and goals to achieve glob al climate 
neutrality by mid -century as well as to agree on decisive short - and 
medium -term policies based on the right balance between mitigation 
and adaptation.  
I wish us all a successful outcome of the Conference. 