1. It is indeed a great pleasure for me to join you to address the “High Level 
Segment of the United Nations Climate Change Conference” being held in Katowice, 
the great city of the Republic of Poland. On behalf of the Cambodian Delegation, I 
would like to ex press my sincere appreciation to the people and Government of 
Poland , as the host of the important event,  for the warmest welcome and gracious 
hospitality, extended to us . 
2. After the historic agreement in Paris, the need for decisive and ambitious 
actions on climate change has never been stronger . Recent IPCC findings point ed out 
serious consequences if the objective to maintain global warming below 1.5°C is not 
delivered . Therefore, s ignificant work s have been d one this year to develop 
mechanisms for the implementation of the Paris Agreement . We firmly hope that this 
COP meeting will come up with tools and guidelines for us to move further with 
implementation. In this context, we urge the developed country partie s to step up the 
level of commitment pre -2020, both on emissions targets and on financing . 
3. Mr. President, Cambodia is doing its share, in line with the principle of common 
but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. Our domestic budget 
allocations to climate change have almost quadrupled over the past seven years, but 
international financi ng has been much less predictable. Financing mechanisms under 
UNFCCC, such as the Green Climate Fund and Global Environmental Facility, need to 
further facilitate direct access to readiness programs and finance for developing 
countries , particularly LDCs. Direct access is one of the main added values of the GCF, 
and progress to date is not up to the magnitude of the challenge. 
4. The current policy platform to take stock of the efforts to develop Cambodia is 
the Rectangular Strategy Phase IV, in which s ustainability and climate change action 
are one of the major pillars . With this regards , Cambodia has made progress in 
promoting renewable energy, particularly through solar farms . We are also making the 
progress in the estab lishment of protected areas and biodiversity corridors, which 
currently cover 41 per cent of our the total country land area . 
5. As one of the most vulnerable countries to the impacts of climate change , 
adaptation still remains one of the top priority for Cambodia . Recent modelling 
indicated that our GDP in 2050 could be almost 10 per cent lower . The impacts of 
increasing temperatures and extreme weather events are particularly damaging. We 
optimistic that process can be made to increase the share of adaptation in cl imate 
finance, and to improve the accessibility of adaptation technologies for developing 
countries. 
6. Cambodia reaffirms the commitm ent to the implementation of our Nationally 
Determined Contribution, and seek consideration from development partners to 
provide the technological , technical and financial support s to complement our 
resources . 
7. I would like to conclude with the hope that our negotiations here will deliver 
the concrete results for better implementation, enhanced pre -2020 ambition, and 
impro ved predictability and accessibility of climate finance for the most vulnerable 
countries. Thank you . 
 