“Hello, 
 
“I want to begin by thanking Spain for helping Chile host this COP . Canada welcome s Chile ’s 
priorities including a focus on oceans, renewable energy, the circular economy , and 
biodiversity.  
 
“As Canada ’s new Minister of Environment and Climate Change , I am pleased to be here. My 
predecessor, Catherine McKenna, built important partnerships with many of you , and I look 
forward to strengthening those relationships and building new ones. 
In my previous role as Canada’s Minister of Fisheries, Oceans and the Canadian Coast Guard , 
I saw the impacts of climate change on our oceans. 
 
“In British Columbia, my home, we see it in what’s happening to wild Pacific salmon stocks. 
Each year yields less, meaning less food for Indigenous communities, less income for fish ers, 
and less biodiversity in our ecosystem. 
 
“Lives are being impacted. Last year, heatwaves took the lives of almost a hundred. Forest 
fires devastated Canada’s West , driving thousands from their homes. Expert Canadian 
scientists recently released a repo rt that showed Canada is warming at twice the global rate, 
and, in our North , its three times . We’ve all seen the reports about the potential of an ice -free 
Arctic . In August , I join ed Prime Minister Trudeau , in Nun avut, to declare interim protection of 
Tuvaijuittuq (Tu -vai-you-ee-tuq), protecting Canada’s High Arctic and northern animals. 
 
“Climate change is a defining issue of our time and one of the reasons I entered politics. 
Before this, I ran clean -technology companies. I am optimistic about technology ’s potential to 
make deep cuts to carbon emissions, carve new paths to prosperity, and create jobs. Canada 
is ready to be a mong the leader s in this global economic shift. 
 
“In October, Canadians re-elected our government with a mandate to take ambitious climate 
action . Last year, we enacted a price on pollution , and many said, at the time, that the political 
risk was too high. Instead , over two thirds of Canadians voted for parties that support pricing . 
We saw huge turnouts at September’s climate marches, including when Prime Minister 
Trudeau marched alongside half a million people in Montr éal. 
 
“Canada is proud to be a part of international efforts to increase cooperation and climate 
ambition with an emphasis on gender equality and the empo werment of women . In 2017, we 
co-founded the Powering Past Coal Alliance , with the UK. While hosting the G7 last year, we 
introduced the Ocean Plastic s Charter to fight plastic pollution. 
 
“We are also delivering on our commitment to support developing cou ntries, including ensuring 
responsiveness to the needs of small islands states and coastal communities. 
  
“It’s also in this spirit of partnership that we are a candidate for the United Nations Security 
Council , for 2021 –22, when we would serve as a member seeking to represent all voices. This 
is why one of our candidacy’s priority pillars is to address climate change, together. 
 
“Here in Madrid, we must unlock opportunities for deeper emission reductions and help 
countries meet and exceed their targets . On Article 6, Canada is committed to ensuring 
environmental integrity —by avoiding double counting , ensuring transparency , and promoting 
sustainable development —so that international cooperation can help all of us increase our 
ambit ion. 
 
“By establishing robust rules , here at COP25 , we can provide the certainty the private sector 
needs to mobilize finance and create a cleaner economy. 
 
“We all saw the latest scientific reports : We know we must increase our ambition. Canada has 
done a lot —introducing a price on carbon, phasing out coal, making historic investments in 
renewables, building public -transit projects across the country, doubling our protection of 
nature, for example. But we must do more. We know we need to not only meet our Paris 
target, but we also must work to exceed it. 
 
“We will come forward with legislation that commits us to our net -zero goal, with milestones 
every five years, paired with a Just Transition Act to make sure we keep people at the centre 
of our policies. We must address climate change in a way that ’s empathetic and sensitive to 
legitimate concerns about this transition, including those in our hydrocarbon -producing regions. 
 
“I am proud to be doing the work alongside the incredible Canadian s we have here at COP, 
which include provincial and territorial governments, industry, environmental groups, labour, 
medical professionals, young people , parliamentarians , and Indigenous Peoples —and in 
partnership with all of you. 
 
“Indigenous communities are the first to feel the impacts of climate change. Canada strongly 
supports respect for human rights and the rights of Indigenous Peoples in the implementation 
the Paris Agreement including Article 6. 
 
“Together, we will build an environmentally and econ omically sustainable world. 
 
“Thank you.” 
 