Mister President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
Please allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
election to preside over this Conference. Let me also take this opportunity to express sincere gratitude to our host, the people and the Government of Poland, for their warm hospitality. 
Thailand would like to join other delegations before me in 
expressing our heartfelt condolences to the people and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, who are severely affected by the devastating Super Typhoon Haiyan. Our hearts also  
extends to the victims around the world suffering from similar 
catastrophes associated with climate change. 
Mister President, 
Like other countries in Asia and around the world, Thailand is 
no stranger to the extreme weather phenomena. In 2011, Thailand 
had experienced the worst flooding in half a century, which caused 
massive loss of lives and painful disruption on people’s livelihood, 
and seriously impeded its economic development. It goes without 
saying that Thailand has become another developing country 
highly vulnerable to climate change. 
Therefore, we strongly support the development of a 
comprehensive step towards the institutionalization of Loss and Damage under the UNFCCC which would serve as a mechanism to 
support information exchange, insurance and remedy for loss and 
damage. 
Mister President, 
With respect to mitigation, we have been through the two 
decades under the UN Climate Change Convention and various 
mitigation efforts under the Kyoto Protocol. Now is the time that 
we must make the adoption of the Second Commitment Period of 
the Kyoto Protocol a reality. As for the issue of the Pre-2020 
Ambition, Thailand urges all UNFCCC Annex-I Parties to scale up 
their mitigation ambition. 
In the areas of Finance, the Fast Start Finance and the Green 
Climate Fund will play an important role to support the means of 
implementation for adaptation and mitigation (including the 
REDD+) . Thailand would like to recall Annex I Parties to continue 
mobilizing financial support with more accessible modalities, 
based on good governance and sustainable use of finance. 
Mr. President, 
 My final point, Thailand has long embraced the concept of 
sustainable development as a guiding principle for our 
development policy. The Royal Thai Government has established the Country’s Strategy based on His Majesty the King’s 
“Sufficiency Economy” philosophy which stresses moderation and 
pacific coexistence with the nature as a way to tackling the climate 
change. 
Finally, as we embark upon our national efforts towards low-
carbon growth and climate resilience, Thailand would like to call 
on the developed countries to lik ewise fulfill their commitments 
under the Convention, and raise their ambition in providing the 
wherewithal for their developing counterparts, to pursue low-
carbon growth and adapt themselves to the adverse impact of 
climate change. These will strengthen our common resolve and 
cooperation that will help us achieve a meaningful agreement to be 
adopted in the next two years.  
I thank you. 