
Your Excellencies - Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
A couple of months ago I visited a small Arctic settlement in the Nort h-Eastern part 
of Greenland together with my Greenland ic colleague . On the fragile cover of ice and 
snow, climate change has left its unmistakable warning about what is coming to all of 
us. It is here that we see the change first written in black and white as clear as the 
IPCC report . 
 
The locals told us about the rapidly receding sea ice and its impact on their lives . It is 
not the first time I have witnessed the consequences of man -made climate change in 
Greenland . As a barometer the Arctic changes warn us of a climate in distress , 
screaming for a comprehensive global response . 
 
We have set – and passed – important milestones . 
 
A global and ambitious climate agreement in 2015 is a must for our planet . History 
will judge us by our actions . We agreed to deliver in Durban. We now have to 
prepare – in a spirit of global responsibility. The ambition should match the 
challenge. Our actions before 2020 will echo in our ambitions after 2020 . But 
ambition and action rests on finance . And lack of credible climate finance poses a 
major challenge for an ambitious and global agreement. 
 
Developed countries have committed to mobilise 100 billion US dollars by 2020. We 
will deliver on our promise and public finance will continue to play an essential role 
but it cannot stand alone . We can’t let the shifting fortunes of state budgets limit our 
response! 
 
Last month, I had the great opportunity to gather ministers and private investors at the 
Copenhagen Climate Finance Meeting to discuss how we can mobilise private 
investments . The message was clear: The money – and the will to investment – is out 
there. 
 
To make it work, we must establish a solid framework : Governments must deliver the 
necessary public finance - and ensure the rig ht policy conditions and regulation. Only 
then will private capital flow to climate related assets - and only then will private 
investors learn that clean equals profit . 
 
The UN Secretary General’s Climate Summit in September 2014 will offer a unique 
platform to make progress on climate finance - before and after 2020 . We must do 
our homework and build momentum now! 
 
Denmark stands by our commitments on both finance and ambition : 
 
In 2013 we have provided 67 million Euros in climate finance for developing 
countries. We plan to contribute at the same level in 2014. We stand ready to provide 
100 million Danish Crowns to the Green Climate Fund , once operational. And we 
will reduce our emissions of Green House Gasses by 40 pct in 2020 - compared to 
1990 levels. 
 
To achieve our target the Danish government launched a Climate Policy Plan in 
August with proposals for effective mitigation actions in all sectors in Denmark . Next 
year we will table a Climate Change Act that establish es the legal framework and 
monitoring mechanisms - allowing us to take cost effect ive climate decisions on a 
scientific foundation. 
 
Finance as promised – and action as required. 
 
Economy and climate action will have to go hand in hand b ecause without economic 
development we will be unable to finance ambitious climate action . And without 
ambitious climate action we will undermine our economic development . We simply 
can’t have one without the other! 
 
So, let us show the world, that we mean business. As world leaders facing the 
challenge of our generation Let us show history that we can agree and deliver. We 
owe that to the locals in Greenland, to generations to come and to our own reflection 
in the mirror. 
 
Thank you. 