On behalf of my delegation, I am pleased to extend my thanks and appreciation to the UN
Climate Change Secretariat for organizing the 19"United Nations Climate Change Conference of
the Parties(COP19). I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the Government and
People of Poland for hosting COP 19 and for extending to us a warm hospitality since our arrival
in this beautiful city of Warsaw.

Her Excellency, Madam Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of the Republic of Liberia and the
People of Liberia extend warmest greetings and congratulate you on your ascendency as
President of COP 19 and the nineth session of the Conference of the Meeting of the
Parties(CMP9). Our President and the people of Liberia look forward to a successful outcome in
Warsaw.

Liberia wishes to associate itself with the statements made by Fiji on behalf of G-77 and China,
Swaziland, on behalf of Africa, Nepal, on behalf of The Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and
Nauru, on behalf of AOSIS.

Mr. President,

Climate change and its impacts have been scientifically identified as a major threat to human
existence, development and to ecosystems. As such, it continues to affect socio-economic sectors
of developed and developing countries thereby hindering attainment of the Millennium
Development Goals. My country, Liberia, is no exception.

In Liberia the impacts of climate change have resulted in low agricultural productivity, and
unprecedented coastal erosion. The negative impacts of climate change on critical sectors like
agriculture, health and energy continue to impede our development drive. Liberia’s current
development plan, entitled Agenda for Transformation(AFT) highlights climate change to
ensure that we develop appropriate national strategies, plans, and actions to climate proof our
development and increase the likelihood that Liberia meets its goal to become a middle-income
country by 2030.

Mr. President,

I am pleased to inform this COP that the Government of Liberia has undertaken major measures
to address climate change. For example:

1.Establishment of a National Climate Change Steering Committee- an advisory
Committee with a mandate to raise climate change awareness, develop a national climate
change policy and mobilize support to mainstream climate change in Liberia’s
development agenda.
2.Completion of the First National Communication- submitted in June 2013 during the
SBSTA-SBI Meeting in Bonn, Germany
3.Development of a National Climate Change and Gender Action Plan — The Plan is
intended to build the resilience of vulnerable people, especially women, against the
impacts of climate change.
4.Development of our national REDD+ Readiness Preparation Proposal (RPP) with support
from the World Bank and in-country partners. When implemented, it will lead to
formulation of Liberia’s national REDD+ strategies and implementation framework.
5.Three NAPA projects are currently being implemented:
- Enhancing Resilience of Vulnerable Coastal Areas to Climate Change Risks in
Liberia
- Enhancing Resilience to Climate Change by Mainstreaming Adaptation Concerns
into Agricultural Sector Development in Liberia; and
- Strengthening Liberia’s Capability to Provide Climate information and services to
enhance climate resilient development and adaptation to climate change.

As we come to the end of COP 19, we anticipate that the outcomes of Warsaw will reflect the
aspirations and wishes of people of the world especially people of vulnerable regions.
Liberia is no exception. Therefore, Liberia is pleased to recommend the following:
1. That the 2nd Commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol should include legally binding
quantified emissions limitation and reduction objectives with the commitment to adjust
the ambition to at least 40% below the 1990 levels.

2. Establishment of a pre 2020 mitigation work plan. The importance of this work plan is to
raise mitigation level during the pre-2020 period.

3. Liberia considers REDD+ a viable option that contributes to climate change mitigation.
Therefore, decisions from Warsaw should consider institutional arrangements for
reducing emissions associated with deforestation and forest degradation.

Mr. President,

The work of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group (LEG) is very important in assisting
Least Developed Countries (LDCs) prepare and implement National Adaptation Programme of
Actions (NAPAs). We want to commend LEG for the role they have played and continue to play.
As we in Liberia prepare to undertake the preparation of our National Adaptation Plans (NAPs),
we look forward to receiving guidance from LEG.

On the issue of TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER- we wish to call for acceleration of knowledge
transfer that is gender sensitive, and one that must address the issue of Intellectual Property
Rights for easy deployment.

On the issue of National Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs), We call for financial,
technological and capacity building support for the preparation and implementation of specific
measurable, reportable and verifiable NAMAs.

Mr. President,

At COP 14, Liberia called for the inclusion of gender during the UNFCCC negotiations. Today,
we are pleased to note that the SBI has adopted a draft conclusion on this issue and has
recommended its approval to this COP. Liberia welcomes the adoption of the draft conclusion on
gender.

Mr. President,

The issue of capacity building is of importance to my delegation. As a post-conflict country with
many challenges, including limited capacity, we were hopeful that this issue would have been
concluded with the establishment of a two-year work programme, but unfortunately we could not
reach a consensus. Liberia reaffirms its commitment to ensure that this issue be considered as a
priority item in the next SBI agenda in 2014.

Finally, Mr. President,

The world awaits concrete decisions from COP19. Therefore, we wish to remind developed
countries of their pronounced commitment to providing adequate, predictable and scale up public
finance and the transfer of technology in the coming years that will lead to a final legally binding
agreement in 2015.

Now, I join many countries on behalf of my Delegation to extend heartfelt sympathy to the
resilient people of the Philippines for the unbearable loss of thousand of lives as a result of 
typhoon haiyan. As we speak, another strong wind has hit Somalia leaing to the death of about
three hundred persons and displacement of over fifty thousand people. As well, we extend our
deepest condolences to our African brothers and sisters.

As we leave Warsaw, let us remember that the threat of climate change impacts is real,
dangerous, destructive and know no boundaries. It can hit anytime and anywhere. The magnitude
of the recent typhoon in the Philippines is second to none in recorded history. This incident must
warn and inform our actions if we care about human lives, including the lives of future
generations. Do we care? Yes, Liberia Cares!

Thank you all.

