
Mr. President 
On behalf of my Government let me take this opportunity to thank the Government of 
Poland for hosting COP19 . I would also like to convey on behalf of my delegation our 
gratitude to the people of Warsaw for the warm reception. 
 
Mr. President 
  
 On the onset , let me express my deep sympathy to the Government and people of the 
Philippines during these difficult times as we are also witnessing devastating effects of the 
climate change. 
 
Mr President  
Excellencies, 
 
As we are gathered in this 19th session of the Conference of the Parties here in Warsaw, a 
powerful cyclone hit the Puntland region in the North -Eastof Somalia and created a state of 
havoc with over 300 persons feared dead. E ntire villages, homes, buildings and boats 
destroyed . More than 50 000 families displaced. Livelihood of tens of thousands of people 
vanished and the main road which is the life line between the main cities cut off instigating 
complete logistical problems for the relief efforts. 
 
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
 
In September this year , one of the two main rivers overflowed its banks in the Middle 
Shabelle Region caused huge displacement and loss of human lives, livestock, crops and 
natural habitats .The Somali federal Government has declared both these region sdisaster 
areas. 
 
Regrettably, my country and my people are not getting the attention they deserved from 
the international media. Therefore , on behalf of Somali government , let me use this 
occasion to appeal from the international community , UN agenciesand international 
organizations to assist those in a dire need. We thank those coun tries that already provided 
aid. 
 
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
 
Somalia is slowly but steadily recovering from civil war and political unrest that have 
ravaged the country since 1991. Above this political distress, the increasingly speeding 
climate change is still triggering loss of agro -biodiversity, land degradation and 
desertification. 
 
For more than twenty years , my country is facing daunting challenge of overexploitation of 
marine resources and de-forestation. The root cause of deforestation is export of charcoal 
which instigating alarming situation to the environment. T he number one factor that 
contributes the charcoal production is the high demand for it s export which keeps the 
trade lucrative and hard to control. 
 
My government has taken the necessary measures to prevent the charcoal export and we 
welcome the Security Council resolution (2036) on charcoal export from Somalia. To 
achieve maximum result, however, we need the cooperation of parties particularly those 3 
 countries that charcoal use is not a necessity but a luxury. We therefore, urge them to take 
appropriate steps to prevent charcoal import from Somalia.  
 
Our m arine resources is also facing threatening challenge s due to the lack of surveillance 
which rende red the country to illegal fishing that are using destructive fishing methods. 
Toxic waste dumping in our seawaters has also led to very serious environmental disast ers 
including marine pollution thatwiped out variousmarine species .Unfortunately, t he 
overexploitation of our marine resources continues in this very day . 
 
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
 
Climate change is also a development challenge that affects women a much greater degree 
in LDC countries and Somalia is not exempted . Majority of peo ple living in poverty are 
women and they bear the brunt of the impacts imposed by climate change. Women in rural 
areas are highly dependent on local natural resources for their livelihood and the change of 
climate restrains securing these resources. 
 
Similarly, many young people in Somalia and other African countries are also facing 
immense challenges in their everyday lives because of the climate change ’s adverse effects 
on their livelihoods . They are trying to migrate to Europe for a better and decent life. It is a 
heart -breaking that many of them never reach their destination.   
 
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
 
In October alone, hundreds of African migrants died in the Mediterranean Sea, after the 
boat they were boarding capsized. They were trying to escape from poverty and 
hopelessness but they end ed up undignified death .This is the destiny for many African 
youth nowadays. E ither way it is a choice between the devil and the deep blue sea. 
 
 
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
 
 
My country is committed to be a full and active partner in global efforts to reduce 
greenhouse gases. Given that the Federal Government of Somalia was sworn in 2012, new 
programs , plans and policies are under development. The intrinsic nature surrounding 
issues of climate change, deforestation, desertification and biodiversity that are all relevant 
in Somalia means that potential synergies exist between the selected climate change 
adaptation activities identified in the NAPA, and the conventions to which Som alia is a 
signatory. 
 Soon after his inauguration , the President of Somalia H.E Hassan Sheikh Mohamud released 
a document entitled the ‘Six Pillar Policy’ outlining the key areas that will help in bringing 
stabilization and development in Somalia under the new government. The policy conveys 
three specific intentions related to the environment, which are as follows: 
  
 Enact laws that preserve and protect the environment; 
 Incorporate environmental education in the formal and informal education 
systems in the country; 
 Rectify the environmental damage of the past such as deforesta tion and cleaning 
of Somali seawaters . 
 
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
 
Without external funding, however, my country will not be able to mobilise the large 
resources needed for technological change, preventing deforestation, replacing energy 
sourcesand improving energy efficiency. For this reason, finance is crucial for my country 
and I encourage developed countries tocommit and provide extra funds in the areas of loss 
and damage, adaptation, mitigation , capacity building and technology transfer . 
 
Mr. President 
 
Allow me to conclude my statement that if our desireis to confront the climate change, we 
need our actions to reflect our words . Although we support the statement made by the LCD, 
African Group and the group of 77 and China , we urge all parties to overcome their 
differences and coming together in the interests of our planet and that of next generations. 
Efforts should be also made to encourage regions to join efforts, share knowledge and work 
together for a better environment. 
 
 
Thank you!!!!! 