It is a great honour to be here representing the Government o f Timor-Leste at this igi
session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and 9" Meeting of Parties to
the Kyoto Protocol. I would also like to express my gratitude to the Government and
people of Poland for the hospitality in hosting this important International Conference,
and sincere thanks to the Executive Secretary of UNFCCC for her leadership in
convening this high level event.

Timor-Leste would like to associate itself with the statement made by Fiji on behalf of
G77 and China, Nepal on behalf of LDC and Nauru on OASIS countries.

As a country geographically situated in Asia, we are deeply touch by disaster that had
affected the people of Philippine. We would like to take the opportunity to express our
deepest condolence for those that has lost life.

Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, .

Climate change has been bringing catastrophes to our world today and even more worse
in a near future. Our socio economy development and ecosystems have been
increasingly affected by the impacts of climate change. Floods, droughts, landslides and
extreme destructive wind events have been increased over the time which leads food
insecurity, water shortage, destruction of infrastructure, human displacement as well as
losses of human lives in many vulnerable countries. In addition, Scientists have
predicted that some of small island countries will be under sea water in the next few
decades due to sea level raise.

Mr. President

In Timor-Leste, massive floods, droughts, landslides and destructive winds have been
increasingly happening since last two decades. These phenomena lead decrease in
agriculture production, food insecurity, water shortage and destruction of infrastructure
as well as human displacement.

Timor-Leste as part of LDCs, emission level of the country, is very low as of 2,013 Giga
grams in 2010 which is very low compared to the emitting green house gas countries.
However, our vulnerability is much higher than those who are the most emitting. It means
that, we are victimized by other emitting counties. Therefore, we need to take actions
rather than waiting. We urge, all parties here in Warsaw to take decisions on mitigation
efforts, including market and non market mechanisms which will facilitate the parties to
reduce their respective green house gas emissions, especially the non Kyoto Protocol
Annex I countries. We believe that, Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs)
will fully operationalized with strong supports provided by the Annex I countries under the
non market mechanism one. In addition, all parties need to reaffirm their efforts in
addressing the ratification processes for the second commitment period of the Kyoto
Protocol in order to come into force as soon as possible. This will enable Annex I Kyoto
Protocol parties to meet their emission reduction commitment target of 25-40% base on
1990 level by 2020. We think that by meeting this target, and implementing market and
non market mechanism, we can meet our global goal of 2 degree target.

We must also take decisions on finance, technology and capacity building to support
adaptation and mitigation measures. We urge parties to take decisions on simplification
of mechanism and procedures for both CDM and accessing climate finance by
developing country parties with recognizing of the country ownership, direct access and
transparency principles. It is also important to identify source of long term finance that
could be from public finance of Annex I country parties, as well as seeking clarity of the
status of fast start financing. In the same way, we kindly request the Annex I country
parties to provide a sustainability of financial support for formulation and implementation
of National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) as well as Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions
(NAMAs) by developing country parties, with special attention to the principle of
sustainability, transparency, flexibility as well as country ownership and direct access
modality.

Lastly, Mr. President,

Regarding 2015 agreement, we must start our negotiation in a comprehensive manner
here in Warsaw in order to achieve it in a timely manner. We should apply principle
common but differentiated responsibility and respective capabilities*the new climate
regime. In this regard, developed country parties should take the lead, including finance,
technology and capacity building for developing countries to address adaptation
measures. Adaptation and mitigation activities in developing countries will depend on
support provided by the developed country parties. Apart from that, we request
developed country parties to reduce their emissions by at least 45% below 1990 levels
in 2020 and 80-95% by 2050. In addition, major developing countries must also reduce
their emissions through National Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) and other form
of mitigation actions.

Our future generation will proud of us, if we are willing to stop their furure through a 
consensus and right decision we made here, in Warsaw.

