
 This Conference is an important opportunity for th e international community to 
show its real political will to give a responsible, credible and supportive response to the 
worrying and complex phenomenon of climate change. 
 
 The Climate Change 2013 Report on the Physical Science Basis presents a 
scientifi c consensus: global warming is unequivocal, it is extremely likely that human 
action has influenced the observed warming and further warming and changes in all 
components of the climate system will continue in the future. 
 
 This scientific evidence underli nes once more the strong risks and socio -economic 
costs of inaction, as well as the ethical imperative to act, since inaction will affect most of 
all the poorest sectors of society, which are more vulnerable to the effects of climate 
change. 
 
 Human activ ity, however, can influence climate change not only negatively, but 
also in a positive way, for the benefit of present and future generations: there are plenty 
of experiences all over the world which show the possibility of taking advantage of so -
called wi n-win opportunities, where climate change adaptation and mitigation are 
achieved together with poverty eradication and sustainable development enhancement. 
 
 As Pope Francis likes to say: “Poverty calls us to sow hope !” 
 
 In this perspective, two points are to be underlined. 
 
 First: ambitious and serious action is needed . The longer we wait, the higher the 
level of ambition will have to be. 
 Second: if we want to address climate change effectively , we must all act together, 
taking into account the nee d to implement a profound and far -sighted review of the 
current model of development, so as to correct its dysfunctions and deviations. This is 
required not only because of the earth’s state of ecological health or because of 
environmental and energy emerg encies , but also because of the scandal of hunger and 
extreme poverty . 
 
 This calls for serious reflection. A reflection which must reassert the role that 
economic development plays in improving measures of environmental well -being . 
Moreover , it requires t aking stock of the moral and cultural crisis, the symptoms of which 
are now evident all over the world. It is urgent, then, to find a way of combining technical 
know -how with a solid ethical approach based on human dignity. 
 
 Important elements for this et hical direction include respect for the dignity of each 
human person, the principles of prudence and precaution, the promotion of the common 
good , attention and care for the poor and future generations, the modification of lifestyles 
and patterns of consum ption and production, often unsustainable in terms of economic, 
social and environmental aspects, the promotion of an authentic spirit of solidarity which 
can guarantee the effectiveness of every cooperative undertaking. Issues affecting the 
human dignity of individuals and peoples cannot be reduced to technical problems . 
Climate change is an issue of justice and equity.  
 
Mr President, 
 
 COP -19 is a significant step in the long -standing process aimed at adopting new 
common binding measures and adequate bud gets for effective mitigation and adaptation 
programmes to address the increasing threat of climate change to humanity. 
 
 The deadline for delivering a global, legally binding agreement was postponed 
several times – we now talk about 2015. There is still a long and complex way to go in a 
relatively short time . Building on the centrality of the human person, social justice and 
equity, we will be able to develop adequate policies at all levels, aimed at identifying 
ambitious sustainable actions that do not ca use new problems for future generations. 
 
 Equity should be the cornerstone of any new agreement. Although frequently 
referred to, the concept of equity in the context of climate change is still poorly defined. 
Equity means different things to different pe ople, and as a result negotiating groups often 
talk past each other despite using the same word. Arguments such as ‘historic 
responsibility’ at times prevail over the real capability of each State to act in order to 
overcome the challenge , and also over th e discourse on better and more effective 
cooperation between developed and developing countries. 
 
 How can we then translate equity into practical measures?  
 
 We have good examples which can guide us, for instance, the implementation of 
the successful oz one regime. This process took into account the concerns and economic constraints
 of developing countries, differentiated standards for developed and 
developing country parties, additional financial assistance to developing country to 
enable compliance; tec hnology transfer. A similar equitable approach to climate action 
seems desirable, since only an agreement based on equitable principles will help us 
effectively address the challenge of climate change. 
 
Mr President, 
 
 Technical solutions are necessary, bu t not sufficient. 
 
 A new agreement should also take into consideration the aspects of information 
and education, with the aim of promoting a sense of responsibility in children and adults 
towards the stewardship of creation and the environmentally sound patterns of 
development, as well as towards the safeguarding of the moral conditions for an authentic 
human ecology. Caring for creation and education are inseparably linked with an ethical 
approach to the economy and sustainable development. How can we hope that future 
generations will respect the natural environment if our educational and social systems as 
well as our laws do not help them to respect themselves or others? 
 
 Talking about emission reductions is useless if we are not ready to change our 
lifestyle and our current dominant models of consumption and production that are often 
unsustainable in their social, environmental, economic and moral aspects.  
 
Mr President, 
 
 Climate change entails a shared responsibility toward the entire human family, 
especially the poor and future generations. 
 
 The hope of the Holy See is that the decisions to be taken in Warsaw will be 
guided by an ethical imperative to act.  
 
Thank you, Mr President.  
 