Your excellencies, presidents, prime ministers, distinguished delegates of COP19, 
ladies and gentlemen, 
 
It is my great honour and pleasure to have the opportunity to gr eet you on behalf of the delegation 
from Bosnia and Herzegovina on this occasion of organising one of the most important conferences, 
where discussions are held on climate change, one of the largest environmental and socio -economic 
problems of the present times. 
 
I feel a great need to thank the host country Poland for excellent organisation of the Conference as 
well as the UNFCCC Secretariat for the efforts that they put in to ensure that the organisation of this 
rather demanding gathering flows in the best possible order.  
 
We hope that the agreements made on this COP will bring concrete results that will lead us to the 
best solutions of the problems caused by the climate change. 
 
As a country situated in the region of South Europe, an extremely sensitive and vulnerable region in 
terms of the climate change, we have shown that we want to play an active role in the fight against 
climate change through fulfilment of our responsibilities under the Convention . 
 
We have produced the second National Communication on climate change under the UNFCCC as 
well as the Strategy for low -carbon development and adaptation to the climate change. At the 
moment we are implementing activities on producing the biennial updated report on the GHG 
emission, the so -called BUR – biennial update report). 
 
The economy of our country is not at the level that we could respond to the climate change 
challenges ourselves, which is why we are welcoming the activities that lead to clear functioning of 
global financial institutions, such as the Green Climate Fund. 
 
Cooperation with the European Union is a part of our everyday activities during which we 
endeavo ur to carry out responsibilities expected from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of fight 
against climate change as soon as possible . We would also like to use this opportunity to point out 
that we are welcoming efforts and supporting activities of the European Union in the negotiations 
process. 
We would like to point out that the disasters happening in the world , carry a message with them on 
the necessity to turn the society towards renewable sources of energy which will ultimately result in 
low-carbon production, green economy and a very well controlled GHG emissions. 
 
We are convinced that new projects and programmes will be initiated u pon completion of this 
gathering, which will provide possibilities for all the stakeholders to find their interests and 
participate in implementation of these projects. 
 
We want to believe that we will leave Warsaw content with what has been done and send a clear 
message to the world that in the spirit of consensus we have made progress which is leaving enough 
space for each country, bearing in mind the humankind needs, to continue moving towards 
accomplishing complete success in reducing the green house effects through implementation of 
national goals. 
 
Thank you. 