
Mr. President

Excellencies and Dear Colleagues, Honourable Ministers,

Distinguished Delegates

1. Let me at the outset associate my delegation with the
statements delivered on behalf of the Group of 77 and China
and the Africa Group in that order.

2. Allow me to also take this opportunity to congratulate you Sir,
for the excellent arrangements and facilities put at our
disposal to create a conducive environment for dialogue in
Warsaw. My delegation and I support you in fulfilling your
mandate.

3. The delegation of Botswana joins others in expressing its
sympathies to the Government and the people of the
Philippines who recently endured the most powerful cyclone
recorded on the surface of the Earth and others who have also
been victims of climate change. These are all manifestations of
extreme climate change.

4. As a result of global warming and climate change the number
of extreme events has increased and these events not only
pose a serious threat to the gains made thus far by our
countries, but also have a potential to pull a lot of our peoples
into poverty. Despite measures to prevent this, however good
they are, the fact is with climate change they are not
sustainable.

5. It is in this regard that it is absolutely necessary that COP19
should be the basis for reaching a legally binding agreement
by 2015 recognising our common but differentiated
responsibilities and respective capabilities.

6. Furthermore we must collectively reaffirm our commitment
and our common interest to the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, the Bali
Action Plan and the Durban Platform as guiding principles
and roadmap to sustainable development.

7. Climate change has taught us that an understanding of the
past climate patterns can no longer be the absolute basis for
determining the future climate trends.

8. Botswana is both semi-arid and very vulnerable to climate 
change and its effects have manifested in frequent and severe
droughts, floods, storms, heat waves and the rainfall patterns
which have changed. This has challenged our food security as
evidenced by 30% reduction in Sorghum and Maize yields.
This remains a threat to our poverty eradication efforts.

9. As I address you today, Botswana is experiencing serious
water shortages that have forced the Government to put in
place water rationing to adapt to the challenges brought
about by climate change.

10. I have the honour to inform this gathering that in our
effort to respond to impacts of climate change, in 2012
Botswana held an Africa Sustainability Summit known as the
Gaborone Declaration and a follow up of the same in October
2013. In addition Botswana recently hosted the 5th Special
Session of the African Ministers responsible for Environment
(AMCEN). At the start of December 2013 Botswana will host
the Africa Elephant Summit where issues of wildlife and
environment will feature prominently in the agenda.

11. The above interventions are as a result of the realization
of increasing deterioration of the environment and to identify
ways in promoting sustained growth, environmental integrity,
natural capital accounting and improve livelihoods.

12. Economic growth and human well-being in Africa will be
threatened if we do not undertake concerted action to halt and
reverse the degradation and loss of healthy ecosystems and
biodiversity, and to enhance society’s ability to adapt to
climate change and environmental risks and scarcities.

13. It is against this background that Botswana considers
adaptation as a priority in order to attain resilience to climate
change. We look to the global partners to be considerate, in
discussing capacity building, technological transfer and the
funding for climate change. But in the meantime Botswana
continues to pursue a greener economy within her limited
resources.

14. If we continue at the current pace, we may in the future
have no opportunity to make any choices. We must be the
generation which first realized the consequences of what we
were doing. We must also be the generation that turns that
around. Anything else is a total abdication of our
responsibility as temporary stewards of this planet. The time
to act is now.

15. Let us be mindful of the generations coming behind us,
that we do not give them an environment that is in tatters.

16. Business as usual will no longer serve us and we
therefore call for a total transformation in the management of
the environment. Addressing climate change requires policy
interventions grounded on good governance and recognition of
the rule of law.

17. In conclusion, the people of Botswana look forward to a
fair, transparent and credible outcome from COP19 that will
set a clear roadmap for the 2015 agreement.

18. I thank you for your attention.

