Mr. President, 
 
I wish to thank you, your Team and the Government and 
people of Peru for the hospitality you have shown to us. It is an 
honour to be in this part of the world. 
 
As a former UNFCCC negotiator, it is a great pleasure to be 
with you in my capacity as Minister. Let me assure you that I 
am missing friends and the process as a whole . 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Delegates , 
 
Let us make history . Let us make history for a safe, climate 
resilient and climate neutra l world. A world where there is zero 
poverty, and zero emissions. 
 
Let us achieve the ultimate objective of the Convention, once 
and for all. Business -as-usual is not an option. 
 
Let us make history by taking bold decisions that will protect 
the current and future generations of humankind.  
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
 
Let us make history, and let us do it now. The science is clear. 
This is our last chance to act if we are to avoid catastrophic 
impacts of a 4 -6 degree warmer world.  
 
Despit e the bleak scenarios projected in the IPCC 5th assessment 
report, the window of opportunity is not yet closed. Solutions 
are available and feasible. But our chances of success are fast 
escaping us . It is high time to act now. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
 
The United Nations Secretary -General’s Climate Summit and 
the People’s Climate March in September shone the spotlight 
on the climate change crisis, and demanded urgency of action 
by all Parties and actors . I applaud LDCs like Ethiopia , whose 
government pledged to have zero net emissions by 2025 and 
Tuvalu who announced that their country would employ 100% 
renewable energy in its electricity supply by 2020.  
 
And the world is beginning to take note.  
 
We are receiving clear signals from the largest emitters that 
responding to climate change is a matter of highest importance 
in the political agenda. 
 
Among these are the EU’s plans to reduce emissions by at least 
40% by 2030; the United States’ intention to reducee missions 
26% - 28% below 2005 levels by 2025 ; and the People’s Republic 
of China’s announcement that it will endeavour to peak its 
emissions around 2030. 
 
While we welcome these announcements, we also recognize 
that they will not bring about a future in which temperature 
rise is limi ted to 1.5 degrees Celsius, and the goal of a climate 
neutral world by 2070 as called for by the recent UNEP report. 
 
And therefore we are far from writing history.  
 
This past month, we also saw pledges to the Green Climate 
Fund reach over 10 billion US dollars. We note with particular 
appreciation the voluntary pledges made by our fellow 
developing countries, including Peru, which demonstrates the 
will to foster south -south cooperation and solidarity. 
 
The Least developed Countries have seen an increase in the 
Least Developed Country Fund in the past years. However, the 
LDCF is now almost empty and our countries are waiting for 
further funding to implement our urgent and immediate 
adaptation needs. 
 
We are encouraged by the momentum that has been generat ed. 
Even with all this effort, however, we are far from reaching the 
target of at least 100 billion US dollars per year by 2020. 
 
And therefore we are far from writing history.  
 
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
 
In this regard, the Gambia joins the rest of the world in making 
history . We have already begun preparing our mitigation 
contribution to the 2015 agreement. We plan to submit this 
contribution by the earliest deadline. 
 
Mr. President, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
 
I began my remarks by saying that I used to be a negotiator in 
this process. In 2011, I said that this ship was about to take off 
in Durban. On behalf of the LDCs, I asked those who were not 
ready to come on board to please not try to sink the ship.  
 
That ship has become what we now call the 2015 agreement, 
which is set to define the future global effort to combat climate 
change ; and which did indeed set sail in Durban. It is now 
passing through Lima, and all have said they wish to come on 
board. It now needs to carefully balance its cargo so that it 
might successfully reach Paris.  
 
Mr President,  

Though we have much to do in Lima, The Gambia has every 
confidence in your leadership. Once again, I extend the sincere 
appreciation of the Gambian Delegation to you, your team, and 
the Government and people of Peru for the ir warm hospitality.  
 
