I have the honour to speak on behalf of Latvia, but I am sure many will agree to what I 
say. We all are here to represent the voices of the world – be it a person, animal or plant. 
However, first of all please allow me to express our condolences to the people of 
France and to all other countries that have become victims of violence. Paris is known as 
the City of Light and the COP21 now has become an evidence of the determination of 
nations to work together towards a better and safer future . 
Last Saturday during Climate action day many spoke about climate chance . Indeed, 
climate change has given us a chance – a chance to honestly look at ourselves and decide 
how we want to be. A chance to change and ensure global transi tion to low carbon and 
climate -resilient societies and economies . 
Many are speaking of different priorities, but in reality there should be only one 
priority – climate change mitigation and resilience . Let’s keep that in mind! Let’s focus 
and deliver on THIS priority ! 
Latvia fully accepts its commitments with regard to climate change mitigation, but our 
action alone will not be enough . The Paris Agreement has to be about stimulating 
ambitious action by all . And I really mean ALL. 
Everyone must be involved ! Everyone must act! The world has changed and the old 
binary division of countries is outdated . The Paris Agreement needs to mirror today's 
economic and geopolitical realities , while reflecting that still there are countries with less 
capabilities. Different countries have different circumstances and different possibilities . 
And I would like to strongly note that this is relevant with regard to all situations – also for 
developed countries as some of them have less possibilities than some developing 
countries. 
After many years of negotiations t his week we must , we can and I am confident that 
we will DECIDE . We already have the draft Paris outcome and I trust that with political will 
of all we can turn it into global, ambitious, durable, legally binding international 
agreement that limits average global temperature increase to below 2 degrees Celsius 
relative to pre -industrial levels . 
Thank you! 