Excellency, the Chairperson, 
Excellency, the Executive Secretary, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
On behalf of H.E. the President of the Republic, José Eduardo dos 
Santos and on behalf of the Angolan People, I would like to convey 
greetings to H.E. the Chairperson , Mr. OYANTA OMALA and to the 
people of the Republic of Peru, and to thank you for the hospitality and 
the excellent conditions provided to us. I would also like to 
congratulate the United Nations and the Executive Secretary for the 
excellent work being do ne in the search for global sol utions, of which 
climate change is undoubtedly a major challenge to development and 
sustainability.  
 
Excellency, 

Very recently, Angola has completed a population and housing census , 
and the results allow us to design adequa te policies for the people and 
spatial planning, as well as for improving the standards of living for an 
increasingly inclusive human development. 

We are diversifying production so that growth provides more 
employment, development of infrastructures, but also for the 
qualification of human resources.  

Angola has significantly reduced the proportion of the population 
leaving in absolute poverty. Eradicating Poverty remains our most 
important challenge. We are committed to establishing a just and 
equitable society. 

We are also committed to ensure stability by reducing the 
vulnerabilities to the effects of Climate Change, by integrating them all 
aspects of our development discourse. 

The models for integrating climate changes into sustainable 
development require the exchange of experiences, collaboration, and 
cooperation. 

Developed countries must support the strengthening of our adaptation 
and mitigation programs , allowing us to adopt appropriate policies, 
which would enable developing countries to benefit from funding with 
projects and solutions. 

To this end, the Republic of Angola approved in 2011 its National 
Adaptation Program of Action and in engaged in the establishment of a 
National Adaptation Plan. Nevertheless, we note that the international 
resources channeled to complement national efforts are inadequate to 
meet the needs derived from our vulnerabilities. 

In addition, the Republic of Angola elaborated its first National 
Communication and is currently preparing its Second National 
Communication. In these documents, we elaborate our national efforts 
to enact a low carbon economy. 

Excellences, 

There is no doubt that the Conference of the Parties is the body that 
should define and strengthen our positions. 

For the second period of commitment of the Kyoto Protocol , Annex 
One Parties have committed to reducing by 30% of their emissions in 
relation to the base year, and we think that the principles and 
mechanisms adopted through this dialogue to respond to our problems 
remain valid. 

The ambition and efforts to materialize the new legal instrument must 
have the understanding and participation of all the Parties. 

We need to acknowledge national circumstances; however, I must 
assert that Angola’s position, which is in line with the African 
Continent’s position, is, and will continue to refer to the need to 
differentiate responsibilities. 

The support to the Least Developed C ountries for adaptation should be 
clear as a commitment, so that we can build a world of equity and 
solidarity. 

The developed countries mus t increase their contributions, and the 
Green Climate Fund should finance tangible actions, which will 
consolidate short - and long -term strategies in accordance with the 
forecasts.

Education, training and capacity -building programs, the fight against 
pover ty and mainstreaming of the Gender perspective are a priority to 
reducing climate risks and adaptation for the most vulnerable. 
 
The exchange of experiences in models for integrating climate change 
into sustainable development must be a priority, and furth er dialogues 
should be held for this purpose. 

Operationalization must be clear and mechanisms transparent. 

There is a need for greater knowledge, collaboration, and cooperation 
amongst the Parties, mainly between developed and developing 
countries, to ensure that all the sectors benefit, as soon as possible, 
from access to new technologies, training and capacity building, as well 
as from the mobili zation of funding commensurate with our challenges. 

Excellences, 

We are certain that the New Climate Agreement will provide an 
opportunity for development and growth, in order to sustain our 
common commitment to save our generation, that deserves the 
happiness of tomorrow and discover the Delight of Nature and Life. 

History has united our future, cultural realities and the integration of 
our continents through the climate; and Lima is today the Capital. 

Here our secular roots, as Africans from the Kingdom of Congo, that 
today affirms the happiness of its music and blood of freedom. 

We reiterate to the brotherly people of Peru our gratefulness for the 
hospita lity in this capital of culture and beauty from its women to its 
sea. 

Thank you. 
 