
Mr. President 
Excellencies, 
The Government and people of Jamaica extend deepest sympathies to and 
solidarity with the Government and people of the French Republic at this difficult 
time. 
We commend France for its commitment and leadership in tackling the issue of 
global climate change. We anticipate that COP21 will be the turning point to 
institute concrete and universal action s to respond to climate change .  This global 
phenomenon threatens the sustainable development of a ll nations, particularly 
the most vulnerable, including small island developing states, such as Jamaica. 
Climate change poses serious challenges to our ability to grow our economy, to 
our food security, the availability of water resources, physical infrastructure which 
are primarily located along our coasts as well as the livelihoods of our citizens, 
particularly the most vulnerable, that is, the poor, elderly, women and children.  
Indeed, for small island developing states, climate change is an attack on our way 
of life. Its impact was brought home forcefully to the population in a real way this 
year, during the extended drought which resulted in severe water shortages in 
 several parts of the island, including the capital city, Kingston.  This water 
shortage had significant adverse impacts on our agriculture and industrial sectors 
as well as the health sector . 
COP21 affords us the opportunity to take decisive steps to arrive at a global 
agreement that is universal in nature and which will allow for reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions that restrict global temperatures to way below 2oC 
above pre -industrial levels. For SIDS, however, we continue to strenuously 
advocate for a global temperature rise of not more than 1.5oC. This call by SIDS is 
neithe r arbitrary nor emotional, as the science has proven that a greater increase 
in global temperatures will be catastrophic for many island states.  We are firmly 
of the view that 1.5oC target is still attainable if all countries are committed to 
achieve this target, including the development , scale up , deployment and transfer 
of the necessary technologies. 
Jamaica reiterates the call made by some CARICOM Heads at the Leaders Event 
that the anticipated universal climate agreement to be adopted at COP21 should 
fully recognize and reflect the specific needs and special circumstances of small 
island developing states with respect to their vulnerabilities to the impacts of 
climate change. 
 Mr. President, 
Jamaica is playing its part in reducing glob al greenhouse gas emissions and has 
submitted its INDCs which covers actions in the energy sector. The country will 
seek to reduce the growth in GHG emissions by 7.8% by 2030. Indeed, our INDC is 
an indicator of Jamaica’s willingness to take action against the deleterious effects 
of climate change in line with our capabilities , and for which we will need the 
support of the international community . 
In Jamaica, we have adopted the slogan ‘With climate change …..we must 
change’, a call for a change in behaviour by the man in the street, businesses and 
the political directorate to facilitate a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and 
a more resilient society. 
We welcome and applaud the pledges made by countries to the Green Climate 
Fund and stress the importance of a ccess to this mechanism b y developing 
countries, particularly the vulnerable SIDS .  
The work on loss and damage is important for SIDS and we welcome and support 
the work that has begun under the Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss and 
Damage. 
 
 
Mr. President, 
Jamaica views climate change and its impacts as a real and present danger that 
necessitates an integrated and universal response. For this reason, COP21 takes 
on added importance , and we believe our goals are achievable. Indeed, the place 
is here, in this the City of Lights and Love, and the time is now. Let us seize the 
moment to secure a better quality of life for future generations. 
Thank you. 
 
 
 