Mr. President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me start by thanking Peru and the Peruvian COP Presidency for the excellent work here in Lima. 
 
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time – in environmental, but also in economic 
terms. And climate change is a fact! Its impacts, damages and resulting costs are already being felt around 
the globe. In the recent weeks several publications , on top the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC, have 
clearly underlined this. Global warming cannot be d enied, and it must not be denied! 
 
In my own country, Austria, a country with fragile Alpine eco-systems, an activity similar to the IPCC 
assessments was launched three years ago. The so-called Austrian Panel on Climate Change, the APCC, 
published its First Assessment Report on the current state of the climate in Austria in September 2014 . 
Warming to date in Austria has been more than double the global average. Our glaciers are melting rapidly, 
and the number of extreme weather events like heavy rainfalls or severe droughts has significantly 
increased in recent years. Today in the morning we had an Austrian Side Event, where these results were 
presented. 
 
Let me highlight some of the steps Austria has alre ady taken to address the challenge of climate change. 
Over 30 percent of our total domestic final energy demand is currently met by renewables. We are 
confident to be well beyond 34 percent by 2020. Around 70 percent of domestic electricity production is 
from renewables. As you know, nuclear energy is not part of our energy mix, because it is a high risk – too 
high risk – energy technology and not sustainable. And I aim for a fossil-free energy system in Austria by 
the year 2050. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
All scientific findings underline that we must do more against climate change – in Austria, in Europe, as well 
as around the globe. It is clear that we need a new, legally-binding climate agreement that is fit to meet the 
climate challenges of the twenty-first century. We need the broadest possible participation. In 2015 the 
UNFCCC process will reach another peak in Paris. Here in Lima we are at a decisive junction on our way to 
Paris: Can we agree upon the text elements to be ne otiated during the next year? Are we ready to define 
the criteria for our intended contributions? We need commitments from all countries - common but 
differentiated commitments, reflecting individual capabilities as they evolve over time. We need a response 
to the climate challenge which is ambitious and equ table at the same time. And we need a success here in 
Lima. The Paris Conference must set a new era in tackling climate change. 
 
Developed countries need to take the lead in this endeavour. And they should continue to support 
developing countries in the areas of finance, technology and capacity-building. Austria has spent more than 
120 Mio US $ in the Fast Start Finance Cycle 2010 to 2012. We significantly scaled up our contribution in 
2013 and 2014. In this context our focus is on bila teral mitigation and adaptation projects as well as 
capacity building and technology transfer. We will continue with such projects. Austria takes its 
responsibility seriously in contributing to the ini tial capitalization of the Green Climate Fund! I am glad to 
announce today that Austria is in a position – as a preliminary first step - to feed a total of 25 Mio US $ into 
the Fund in the years 2015 to 2018. I am in negotiations to double this amount up to 50 Mio US $ in a 
second step early next year. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
At the beginning of my intervention I mentioned that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our 
time, it should not turn into the greatest challenge. Let us demonstrate our collective leadership - let us act 
together! 
 
Thank you. 