I would like to start by thanking the Peruvian people for their 
hospitality in the beautiful city of Lima and the generous facilities 
dedicated for this particular event . 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen 
 
The IPCC s howed in its fifth assessment report that the Arctic 
region is especially vulnerable to the effects of climate change. My 
country has a quarter of its area extend ing north of the Arctic Circle 
and the Arctic is thereby of utmost importance to us . But today , I 
want to draw y our attention to the Arctic region , since it is it is of 
crucial importance to every single Party in this room . The impacts of 
climate change in the Arctic will amplify global warming and the 
related risks . This results from loss of ice c over, impacts of black 
carbon and thawing of the permafrost in the Arctic . The degree of 
global sea level rise will largely depend on the extent these 
changes can be prevented . 
 
Mr President 
 
Protection of the Arctic region and minimization of global sea level 
rise calls for agreeing on an ambitious 2015 agreement in Paris . 
Ultimately, vast coastal areas and numerous human lives are at 
stake.  
 
We all have a clear view by now on what is needed from Lima in 
order to succeed in Paris . First, we need a decis ion that will guide 
us next year, not least in the preparations of our Intended Nationally 
Determined Contributions. Second ly, we need a good basis for the 
finalization of the negotiating text for the Paris conference. 
 
To succeed in Paris, it is crucial that the first and following drafts of 
the negotiating text identify key political choices and remain 
manageable in terms of size . 
 
Active participation of women will be imp ortant in efficient 
implementation of climate policies. We are very pleased that the 
Lima work prog ramme on gender was agreed last week. We would like to 
see gender equality as a guiding principle in the 2015 
agreement. 
 
Mr President 
 
Let me now turn to how my country is contributing to global efforts. 
Finland´s domestic long -term goal is to become carbon -neutral. 
 
In June, the Government submitted for parliamentary approval 
Finland´s Climate Change Act. It aims at putting into law a long -
term mitigation target of at least 80% emissions reduction by 2050. 
The act covers b oth mitigation and adaptation . It is also intended to 
serve as a tool for the Government and Parliament to reach the 
emissions reduction targets in the most cost -efficient and 
systematic way possible. 
 
In October, a roadmap on climate and energy policy until 2050 was 
released by a Parliamentary Committee covering all major political 
Parties. This roadmap has a particularly broad support from the 
Finnish society and confirms that Finland is committed to the EU’s 
goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80 -95% of the 19 90 
level by 2050. 
 Finland is one of the first countries to have drawn up a national 
strategy for adaptation to climate change in 2005. This strategy has 
been recently updated and spans now till 2022. 
 
We believe that developing cleantech business es is the solution to 
combine ambitious climate and economic targets in the future. In 
2014, Finland launched its national strategies for cleantech 
business and bioeconomy, and the goal is to double our cleantech 
business until 2020. We need wide global utilization of cleantech 
solutions to reach the climate targets, and Finland has plenty to 
offer to domestic and international markets. Cleantech business 
and bioeconomy are the key areas of green growth in the future. 
 
Finland stands ready to help developing countr ies to achieve the 
same. Finland aims at contributing 80 million euros, the third largest 
pledge per capita and per GDP , to the Green Climate Fund during 
2015 -18. Finland has continuously increased its support for the 
GEF, contributing 65 million euros to the 6th replenishment, and 
has been a regular contributor to the Least Developed Countries 
Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund. 
 
Mr President, 
 
I am convinced that by the end of this week we will reach a positive 
outcome. In the course of our work we need to keep in mind that our 
decisions can have long term consequences . I am a mother 
myself so this is also of a personal concern to me. It is our 
responsibility to guarantee that the world prevails to our children as 
beautiful as it is today . 
 
Gracias . 