
I feel particularly honoured to be making this address and to participate at this historical 
21st Session of the UNFCCC COP. I would like to start by thanking the French Authorities for 
the tireless commitment they have demonstrated in preparing for this COP. I believe I am 
speaking on behalf of all my counterparts present here in Paris when I say tha t we are 
profoundly grateful to France for providing us with the required political momentum and 
support to ensure that we do not leave Paris without having a new legally binding Climate 
Agreement in hand. It is now up to us to prove to the world outside t hat we, the Parties to 
the UNFCCC, are resolved to steer the planet away from a catastrophic future. 
 
Malta has always been at the forefront in advocating climate action.  This legacy is proudly 
ingrained in the history of our nation. We believe that our nation, despite its minute size, has 
to transform the circumstances that may work against us into the very raison d’etre for 
taking up new initiatives and responsibilities, both on a national level and within the 
international community of States. 
 
This y ear we have promulgated a Climate Action Act in Malta, which facilitates the 
implementation of our legally -binding targets to reduce emissions within the context of the 
EU Energy and Climate Packages. This Statute ascertains a cross -sectoral approach towar ds 
achieving a low carbon economy as well as adaptation to climate change. It also establishes a 
holistic approach towards climate action governance. 
 
At the international level, we have taken the initiative to encourage a high level discussion 
and adopti on of a Commonwealth Statement on Climate Action (which will be uploaded on 
the UNFCCC COP site this evening) at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting 
which was held in Malta on the eve of the Leader’s Day for this COP. This Commonwealth 
Statement w hich was communicated by my Prime Minister last Monday is testament to a 
collective recognition of the salient issues which need to be encompassed within a Paris 
agreement to set the international community on the path towards a low -emission climate 
resili ent future.  We urge that a salient point from this statement relating to the ‘pledge that 
Nationally Determined Contributions registered in connection with the entry into force in 
2020 of the Paris Agreement will be at least as ambitious as corresponding intended 
contributions,’ is incorporated into this week’s final outcome. 
 
From a national perspective, Malta strongly believes that our resilience as a nation depends 
on what kind of “added -value” we can give in this geopolitical world order of the twe nty first 
century. We need to transform words into action. As a member of the European Union, Malta 
is proud to participate in effective climate action, and is legally committed at a multilateral, 
European and domestic level to reduce emissions of greenhou se gases in order to mitigate 
climate change. Malta’s determination to switch to a low carbon economy is characterised by 
a vision, based on the long -term, socio -economic, and environmental benefits of greenhouse 
gas emissions reduction. 
 
Let me share wi th you the steps Malta took, notwithstanding significant challenges, in order 
to meet its greenhouse gas reduction objectives. For its part, Malta is fully capitalizing on 
opportunities emerging within its Energy Sector. As the energy generation sector is by far 
Malta’s highest contributor to national GHG emissions, these measures are expected to 
domestically lead to around a 40% GHG reduction, compared to 1990 levels, in Malta’s 
energy sector carbon footprint by 2020 and beyond. 
 
Malta is committed to in crease energy efficiency, along the entire energy chain from 
generation to consumption. Malta is also working with the aim of promoting electricity and 
gas grid integration between the EU and North Africa, and actively acting as an energy hub in 
the centre of the Mediterranean. 
 
Malta is also undertaking commitments in its mitigation and adaptation policies through its 
Climate Action Act, to ensure that efforts in all sectors will be underpinned by the required 
institutional capacity to monitor, review and verify our reduction targets and adaptation 
measures, secure better climate governance and ensure the necessary forward planning. 
  
As an EU Member State, Malta remains committed to the efforts that the EU undertakes in its 
contributions to climate actio n with a view to financially supporting developing countries, 
including via technology development and transfer as well as capacity building, and this 
through the EU budget and the mobilization of the Green Climate Fund. In 2015, Malta 
contributed to the G reen Climate Fund as well as proudly launched a scholarship 
programme with the aim of aiding in building knowledge acumen in States most vulnerable 
to climate change. This programme will do so by: 
 
- Offering nationals from these States scholarships in un dergraduate/postgraduate studies 
related to climate  action at the University of Malta; and 
 - Providing assistance and training at a policy making, vocational and institutional level. 
 
I reiterate that the choices we have made have not been without difficulties and there are 
still many challenges we face, but we remain committed to forge ahead and to identify any 
possible opportunities that would foster a low emission economy. We draw strength from 
the fact that we have experienced the benefits of de coupling economic and emissions 
growth.  In conclusion, despite Malta’s minute size, its lack of economies of scale, its 
population density that is amongst the highest in the world, as well as its peripheral 
geophysical position, through our endeavors towa rd addressing greenhouse gas emissions 
and reducing them drastically together with other EU Member States, we are still in a 
position to confirm that the benefits of a low carbon economy far outweigh the negatives. 
 
Notwithstanding our small size, we cons olidate our commitment to contribute to effectively 
addressing a global challenge that is a common concern of humankind.  
While the world leaders have given these proceedings the much needed sense of urgency 
and commitment, and the technical talks contribut ed in successfully outlining the final text, 
the onus is now on us Ministers to get actively and directly involved in the process, if need 
be by moving out of our comfort zones – to close the small remaining gaps that may still exist 
between our groups. 
 
We must make use of this momentous opportunity to not only prove to our people that it is 
imperative that we take climate change seriously, but perhaps more importantly to ensure a 
better quality of life, health and environment to our present and future gen erations. 
 
Let us thus commence by reaching an ambitious agreement that will stand us in good stead 
for years to come. 
 
 
 
 