Mister President, distinguished Delegates, 
The successful outcome of the COP 21 depends on us. Ours is the task to reach an 
agreement that is fully shared by all Parties and is capable to ensure a better future for all. 
- A future without runaway climate change to avoid untold and unmanageable 
consequences 
- A future in solidarity where all countries can have the economic and technological 
opportunities for a sustainable growth 
- A future where the decarbonisation of the economy is not just an environmental 
mid -term goal but represents a new model of social and economic development, 
bringing greater wellbeing and equity among the peoples of the world. 
We should leave Paris being aware and proud of having contributed to an historical 
agreement for the future of mankind. A responsible agreement meant to support the 
generations to come. An agreement of civilization which has all the more value today 
after the tragic events recently occurred in our host town brutally hit by blind hatred 
and terror. 
Italy, together with the other EU member countries , has been stressing the need to 
reach an ambitious agreement. Amb ition today is no longer an option. Rather it is a 
necessity. Time does not allow us to re ach a weak agreement. Our planet does not give 
us more time : global warming has triggered countless extreme weather events causing 
a growing number of victims and huge damages throughout the world. 
We must be more ambitious, we can be more ambitious. 
I am proud to reiterate that my country, Italy, one of the signatories of the Kyoto 
Protocol, has achieved the targets set by that Protocol. We managed to reduce CO2 
emissions by 20% while producing an economic growth of 30% 
Ambition pays 
To be effective the agreement that we want should include a periodical review 
mechanism of the targets achieved, taking into account the conditio ns of the different 
countries, their respective national capacities. The Parties to the agreement should be 
put in the position to be able to report 
periodically the efforts carried out, so as to make it possible to measure the collective 
effort needed to reach the goal of curbing global warming. 
Efficacy by itself is not enough. The agreement must be based on solidarity. We cannot 
neglect the pressing request that the most vulnerable countries are addressing to us to 
assess the possibility to limit the te mperature increase to 1.5 degree Celsius. 
The role of the international community will be crucial to help the poorer countries, in 
particular those with the most fragile territories: islands, deserts, mountains . 
Italy will play its role, as our Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi , rightly pointed out in his 
opening intervention. Italy will increase its contribution for climate finance up to 4 
billion dollars between 2015 and 2020 and will be committed to the devel opment of 
renewable energies in Africa . 
250 million Euros have already been allocated to the Green Climate Fund. 
As far as Adaptation is concerned, my country is engaged in giving its contribution, by 
the end of the current year, to the Less Developed Countries Fund and to the Adaptation 
Fund. 
By way of conclusion, let me recall the words of His Holiness Pope Francis. His 
Encyclical Letter “Laudato Si” has offered to us the highest moral contribution on the 
environmental question . The Pontiff taught us that the challenge be fore us is that of 
achievin g an integral social and economic ecology that could bring us to “redefine the 
concept of progress” 
This is what we are called to achieve here in Paris, to redefine the concept of progress in 
favor of humanity to build, all together, a better future. 
A bet ter future for each and every human being. 
 
 