Honorable Ministers and Heads of Delegations,
Distinguished delegates,
Ladies and gentlemen,
1. At the outset, the Myanmar delegation would like to express its deepest appreciation and congratulations to the Government and people of France for your warm hospitality and excellent arrangements during this historic event in beautiful Paris. The people of Myanmar express our heartfelt condolences following the despicable acts of terror last month.
2. Myanmar acknowledges the work of the IPCC in its Fifth Assessment Report, and is deeply aware that climate change is a major global challenge. The evidence is clear that climate change is causing serious impacts today, requiring urgent and immediate action by all. To tackle this challenge, we are here in Paris to reach a milestone comprehensive Global Climate Change Agreement. This new agreement should state 1.5 'C as its temperature goal, to save our generations to come.
3. Myanmar, especially in this historic time of democratization and socio-economic development, supports the universal adoption of ambitious goals, targets and commitments to guide a sustainable future.
4. That is why Myanmar considers climate change the single most important challenge to its sustainable development. Myanmar has every intention to make its contribution in the global alliance of countries to mitigate climate change; as well as adapting at the national and local levels to increase our climate resilience. Failing to do that will hinder the prospects for the social and economic development of our population of over 50 million people.
5. That is why we believe that the Paris agreement must address the core elements mandated by the Durban decision in a comprehensive and balanced manner: mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, capacity building, and transparency of action and support, as well as loss and damage and response measures, in accordance with all principles and provisions of the Convention, in particular the principle of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
6. For several years in a row, Myanmar has been ranked second in the world among the countries most exposed and vulnerable to the negative effects of a changing climate. We are too aware of the devastation that extreme weather events can bring. In 2008, Tropical Cyclone Nargis caused the loss of 138,000 lives and damage of USD 4 billion. This year 2015, in July and August, severe floods and landslides of unprecedented proportions damaged millions of acres of agricultural land and affected over 25 million people. We are still recovering from these two events, yet know we face ever-increasing storms, cyclones, floods and droughts that will seriously hamper our socio-economic
development. Therefore we reiterate that including loss and damage in this agreement is critically important to the vulnerable countries. It must address the needs and challenges faced by developing countries emerging from extreme and slow-onset events.
7. Nationally, as part of the political reforms that began in 2011, the Government of Myanmar is putting in place the necessary legal, procedural and governance instruments – and building the institutional, technical and human capacities – needed to achieve socially, economically and environmentally sustainable development. We have accelerated greatly the mainstreaming of climate change into sectoral and development agendas. Environment, including climate change, is one of the seven strategies of the National Comprehensive Development Plan (2011-30).
8. Very importantly, Myanmar is now developing its National Climate Change Strategy and associated action plans to guide the mainstreaming of climate change in sectoral, state and regional development planning and policy formulation. The goal we have set for ourselves is that of achieving climate resilient, low-carbon, resource efficient and inclusive development as a contribution to sustainable development with the strategic objectives of: building climate resilience of vulnerable communities; enhancing low-carbon, resource-efficient and inclusive development; enhancing sectoral capacities; and building multi-stakeholder partnerships.
9. This roadmap provides us with even further clarity on the challenges ahead. To be successful in these areas, we need to reinforce all institutional capacities, policies, financial frameworks, access to technology, awareness and capacity – including data, research and innovation – and the partnership of all stakeholders in society.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
10. More precisely we are committed, on the one hand, to play our part in the global effort of mitigating emissions, now and in the future. To do so, I am proud of the INDC we have submitted. However, as a Least Developed Country, our responsibility is also to continue developing socially and economically with a reasonable pace; our growth will likely entail an increase of GHG emissions. Therefore, we strongly adhere to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities under the Convention in the new agreement.
11. Our INDC focuses on maintaining the carbon-sink status of Myanmar through protecting our forests. With the largest expanse of tropical forest in mainland South East Asia, Myanmar is a net greenhouse gas (GHG) sink, and so already makes a significant contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change. A REDD+ mechanism has significant potential to reduce emissions, adapt to climate change, and enhance forest carbon stock through sustainable forest management. We thus urge inclusion of a REDD+ Mechanism in the agreement and a Paris COP decision on sustainable financing through the GCF and other sources for REDD+ implementation in developing countries.
12. As Myanmar develops its economy, our INDC shows our plan to produce electricity from a considerable proportion of renewable energy in the national energy mix. The Government of Myanmar aims to achieve its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of poverty alleviation through increasing the electrification rate from 34% by 2015-16 to 45% by 2020-21, 60% by 2025-26, and 100% by 2030.
13. To implement our INDC, Myanmar has initiated a wide range of policies and programmes including the National Forestry Master Plan (2001-2031),
National Energy Policy (2014) and draft National Energy Efficiency and Conservation Policy.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
14. We also recognize the need to more consistently include civil society perspectives, empower groups at risk of the short and long-term impacts of climate change, and integrate gender considerations into climate change policy design. This effort is ultimately a means to alleviate suffering and enabling sustainable development of the poor, both in rural and urban areas.
15. While our INDC shows our desire to contribute to global mitigation of GHGs, Myanmar wishes to state clearly and firmly that adapting to the negative effects of climate change and building climate resilience remain our absolute priority. We are currently engaged in a number of sectoral actions under our NAPA while we are also working hard on developing our long term National Adaptation Plan (NAP).
16. Myanmar believes that transparency in the new agreement is also very important. We intend to develop a robust MRV system.
17. But our base of technical, human and financial capacities is low. We are concerned that we will not be able to adapt or create adequate MRV systems in time. We therefore endorse language in the new agreement that recognizes the importance of capacity building, technology development and transfer, and finance to particularly vulnerable developing countries like Myanmar, especially for implementing our Nationally Determined Contributions.
18. Finance is a crucial and key element of the Paris outcome. Developing countries require a substantial scaling up of finance from the 2020 base level of US$100 billion by developed countries to GCF.
19. Myanmar welcomes the most recent pledges to the Least Developing Country Fund (LDCF), which has remained under-resourced for a long time. Equally, adequate resources for Adaptation Fund are urgently required.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
20. But increasing pre-2020 ambition is equally important. It builds trust and creates the foundation for the post-2020 agreement. We reaffirm that the Kyoto Protocol is the legally binding basis for addressing pre-2020 mitigation ambition.
21. For Myanmar, the larger question remains on how to achieve both socio-economic growth and emission control and reduction needed to sustainably grow. We know that Myanmar’s economic development is likely to increase demand for services and resources, and the emissions associated with them. We believe that socio-economic growth can be obtained while managing our resources wisely to ensure sustainable growth for generations to come.
22. For our own people and all the world’s citizens, we come to Paris wanting to celebrate the milestone of a new, legally binding Global Climate Change Agreement that reflects our common but differentiated responsibilities in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Convention. We stand ready to do our part.
Thank you