Please allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
election to preside over this Conference. Le t me also take this 
opportunity to express sincere gratitude to our host, the people and 
the Government of Peru, for their warm hospitality. 
Once again, the scientific findings from the 5th Assessment 
Report of IPCC have proven that climate change has significantly 
caused adverse effects to natural resources , environment and 
human livelihood. Thailand is one of the countries highly 
vulnerable to climate change. 
Thailand believes that dealing with climate change requires 
an approach to development – one that it is truly sustainable . And 
in Thailand, we are guided by what is know n as His Majesty the 
King’s “Sufficiency Economy Philosophy .” As a development 
model, this means seeking a balance between economic prosperity 
and environmental conservation to achieve sustainable 
development. His Majesty’s r oyal patronage have set fundame ntal 
needs for rural and local people to know how to wisely utilize their 
natural resources, maintain their healthy environment and 
recognize their adaptive capacity which will be crucially guided in 
our National Adaptation Plan . 
Mister President, 
Recently , Thailand National C limate Change Policy 
Committee has approved the Climate Change Management Master 
Plan 2014 -2050, the long term comprehensive inscript ion lead ing 
all Thai concerned ministries to tackle climate change in all 
aspects. 
As a member of Non – Annex I parties , we are pleased to 
support all efforts in finaliz ing the new agreement to be adopted in 
Paris’s COP 21. We are now working on INDC’s preparation, and 
would like to urge developed count ries to continue showing 
leadership by coming forward early with ambitious INDCs. 
Altogether, we wish that the principles of CBDR and respective 
capability will be continuously taken into account. 
With respect to mitigation, Thailand is pleased to applaud 
fast action of countries in submitting the instrument of approval for 
Doha Amendment. Certainly , Thailand will join the forerunners by 
early 2015. Besides, the Thai Cabinet has just approved pledging 
our NAMAs . We plan to cut at least 7% below the business as 
usual in energy and transportation sectors by 2020 and possibly be 
scaled up to 20 % with additionally international supports. At this 
point, Thailand would like to welcome the initial capitalization of 
Green Climate Fund. The 9.95 billion US dollar pledge is a good 
start to reach 100 billon US dollar by 2020.  We do app reciate the 
developed countries who contributed to this pledge.  However, we 
expect that the GCF would have sustainable and sufficient fund to 
support developing countries on mitig ation and adaptation 
activities such as REDD+ plus in the long run. 
Mister President , 
Finally, Thailand wishes that developed countr ies should 
continue in taking lead in reducing greenhouse gas emission and 
keep providing supports for means of implementation to the 
developing countries. Thailand will do with our utmost efforts to 
join with global comm unity in tacking climate change and to 
pursue low -carbon growth and sustainable development.  
Thank you. Mr. Presi dent. 