
Statement delivered by Nepal on behalf of
The Least Developed Countries (LDC) Group
Opening of the High Level Segment COP-20 / CMP- 10
Lima, Peru, 09/12/14
Mr. President. Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen
Mr. President First allow me to convey my congratulations
on your assumption of the Presidency. I would like to take
this opportunity to express our deep appreciation for the
incredible hospitality you and the people of Peru have
shown to us.
I have the honor to speak on behalf of the Least Developed
Countries Group, which represents the 48 poorest countries
in the world, extremely vulnerable to the impacts of climate
change. I speak for nearly one billion people who are
suffering, in some cases dying, due to a crisis that they did
not create.
Mr. President, it has become a daily part of our lives to
experience the startling increase in frequency and intensity
of extreme weather events resulting from climate change.
Our farmers are finding it harder and harder to grow crops.
Our cattle are dying. Our glaciers and mangroves are fast
disappearing.
Unfortunately, despite 22 years of commitments to taking
action, global temperatures continue to rise alongside
unprecedented greenhouse gas emissions. The IPCC reports
which we adopted, are unambiguously clear: unless we
immediately reduce emissions, we are on track for a 3-5
degree rise in temperature. There will be severe, pervasive
and irreversible impacts on people and ecosystems – and

some of our countries will completely disappear. In other
words Mr. President, we are heading towards an
unthinkable future.
Mr. President, despite more than 500 decisions under this
regime, we are still losing sight of the big picture. While we
respect individual interests of parties and the need for fine
and detailed negotiations, we should not forget that the
window of opportunity for addressing the global climate
crisis is rapidly closing.
Mr. President, despite this, the LDCs are still optimistic on
achieving a climate neutral future before the end of the
Century. Our Group understands that, in our journey of
combating the climate crisis and reaching a climate neutral
world, we must make the right choices here in Lima and next
year in Paris. We have a historical opportunity to make
things right through the new Paris Protocol.
Mr. President, those choices include the following: first, all
countries must undertake ambitious mitigation actions with
short term quantifiable five year economy wide commitment
targets and long term mitigation commitments by developed
countries and other countries that are capable to do so;
second, we must agree on a mechanism for increasing
ambition overtime; and third, we must agree on a pathway
for quantifiable, new, additional, predictable and sustainable
financial resources for climate action in our countries.
Mr. President, we hope that 2015 Paris Protocol will
reinforce legal parity between mitigation, adaptation, loss
and damage and means of implementation as well as
transparency of action and support. Needless to say, the

LDCs and our needs and priorities also warrant special and
dedicated treatment in the Paris Protocol.
Mr. President, the LDCs call for the immediate
replenishment of the LDCF. So far, the LDCF has received
less than 1 billion USD to implement our National
Adaptation Programmes of Action (NAPAs) which were
meant to respond to our most urgent and immediate
adaptation priorities. The LDCs welcome and appreciate the
support of contributing countries thus far, but we remain far
from the amount needed to implement our NAPAs. We urge
developed countries to continue considering the LDCF in its
future funding allocations. The implementation of the LDCs’
urgent and immediate NAPAs must be completed by 2020.
Mr. President, let me say that the reality of what LDCs face
demands explicit, urgent, ambitious and concrete actions to
bridge the current emissions gap and the financial gap. Let
us get back to work with good intentions of speeding up our
work to enable us to finalise the most ambitious and
effective climate protocol in Paris next year.
Mr. President,
Please allow me to speak on behalf of South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
comprising of eight countries namely, Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri
Lanka.
Mr. President, South Asia is a home to almost a quarter of
the world’s population and is endowed with vast water
bodies and other natural resources. This region has also

rich cultural and biological diversity. A sizable portion of
ecology and biological diversity is under stress as well.
Climate change has threatened our social and economic
development. The region is becoming more and more
vulnerable and is facing rising frequency and intensity of
floods, droughts, cyclonic storms and storm surges,
landslides, glacial lake outburst floods, sea level rise and
salinity intrusion. The IPCC reports reaffirm the likelihood of
these severe, perverse and irreversible impacts.
Noting that South Asia is particularly prone to climate
change and related disasters, the 16th SAARC Summit held
in Thimphu, Bhutan, in 2010 adopted the ‘Thimphu
Statement on Climate Change’ as a means to further
regional cooperation and actions on climate change.
Last month, the18th SAARC Summitheld in Kathmandu,
Nepal adopted the “Kathmandu Declaration”where
theSAARC Heads of State or Governmentstressed on
effective implementation of the SAARC Agreement on Rapid
Response to Natural Disasters, SAARC Convention on
Cooperation on Environment and Thimphu Statement on
Climate Change, including taking into account the existential
threats posed by climate change to some SAARC member
states.
The SAARC Leaders underlined the urgency for the global
community to arrive at a Protocol, another legal instrument,
or an agreed outcome with legal force applicable to all by the
end of 2015, based on the principles of Common but
Differentiated Responsibility (CBDR), Respective
Capabilities and Equity under the UNFCCC.

Mr. President, any delay in action on climate change will
only add to our costs and the requirement of Adaptation.
Therefore, Pre-2020 ambition and ratification of Kyoto
Protocol 2nd Commitment Period is the urgent need of the
hour.
We must work out a post-2020 framework that is based on
equity CBDR-RC and protects the poor and vulnerable
people in South Asia from the disastrous impacts of climate
change.
Mr. President, please allow me, to speak on behalf of
Nepalnow.
The mountainous country – Nepal – is most vulnerable to
climate change. Our agriculture, forests, water and
infrastructure sectors are greatly affected by the adverse
effects of climate change posing food, water and energy
insecurities. Climate-induced disasters have repeatedly
claimed lives and properties.
Moreover, disproportionate temperature rise in the
Himalayas have caused glacier retreat, GLOF and frequent
avalanches. This phenomena has exposed black rock in the
beautiful ice caps, thereby seriously impacting on our
tourism industry andon the lives and livelihoods of billions
of people living around the Himalayas and downstream. Our
development cost has increased by many folds and we must
be compensated for this additional cost.
In spite of our technical and financial limitations, Nepal has
taken several policy, institutional and implementation
measures, including implementation of NAPA prioritized
most urgent and immediate adaptation actions. We have

introduced dedicated budget code to channel climate finance
and preparing low carbon development strategy.
The Climate Change Council, chaired by the Right Honorable
Prime Minister, ensures coordination and guidance at the
political level.
Mr. President,
Considering the significant contribution that mountains
make and the climate change vulnerability they
possesses,Nepal calls upon all Parties to develop a special
Work Program on Mountains under the article 4.8 of the
Convention to reduce the climate change vulnerability and
associated loss and damage. We believe such a work
program will help to enhance our knowledge in better
understanding mountain ecosystems and enable us to adapt
to, and build resilience to climate change.
Thank you Mr. President !