My delegation extends its sincere appreciation to the Government and people of Peru 
for their warm hospitality and kindness accorded to us since our arrival . 
 
1. Allow me to also associate ourselves with the statements delivered by Nauru on behalf 
of the Alliance of Small Island States, and Bolivia on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China . 
Mr. President , 
2. It is clearly evident that the climate change paradigm is at the forefront of today ’s 
 global issues having garnered global momentum faster than all other world issues due 
 to its ominous impacts to global co -existence, and no -where is this m ore evident than 
 in the low -lying islands of the Pacific. 
3. Tonga’s smallness in size, and low -lying and scattered geography , has placed her as 
 one of many small islands living on the frontlines of climate change. Tonga has been 
 identified as the second most -at-risk country in the world to natural hazards, which is 
 further compounded by the adverse impacts of climate change. 
 
4. Testament to these climate impacts is the most recent Tropical Cyclone Ian. A 
 Category 5 cyclone , which in January of this year, devastated Tonga’s central 
 island group of Ha’apai resulting in destruction totalling US$120 Million. 
 
5. With science propos ing an increase in frequency and intensity of tropical cyclones, this 
places an even greater burden on Tonga and all Small Island Developing States. Yet 
we remain committed to mitigating these risks to our lives and livelihoods , and to 
building our capacity and resilience. 
 
 
 Mr. President , 
 
6. Tonga recognizes the threat that climate change poses, and has made significant steps 
toward a more resilient and sustainable future through application of both vertical and 
horizontal integration of climate change related stakeholders ensuring a ‘whole -of-
country approach’ in the fight against climate change . 
 
7. Tonga is the pioneer in the synthesis of Climate Change and Disaster Risk through 
implementation of our Joint National Action Plan on Climate Change Adaptation and 
Disaster Risk Management, and we have now increased our mitigation efforts to 
achieve an ambitious 100% RE by 2020 via Tonga’s Energy Road Map. 
 
8. Tonga also pioneered the Pacific Region in the establishment of its Parliamentary 
Standing Committee on Environment, Climate Change and Disaster, and the first in 
the Pacific to implement its Third National Communication. 
 
9. These activities are testament to Tonga’s marked increase and high priority to 
 both mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change. 
 
10. Tonga consider s climate change to be the greatest threat to our very survival , 
 and have highlighted through national efforts, the need to respond urgently 
 and adequately to the social, economic and security impacts of climate change, to 
 ensure our survival and viability . 
 
Mr. President , 
 
11. With only 0.01 % of global emissions produced by the Pacific as a region, Tonga 
 understands that we co -exist in a Global Commons, and that as a global family we 
 must foster global partnerships as a measure to catalyze global ambitions. 
 
12. Yet, in light of our limited human resources, and economic capacity, we as one of the 
worlds most vulnerable countries, have no alternative but to leave no stone unturned, 
or leave anything to chance, and spare no expense , because no monetary value can be 
ascribed to ‘one’s ri ght to exist’. 
 
13. It is in this context , that the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Tonga urge 
world leaders to revise their development strategies by taking up the challenge of 
adopting and reverting to more sustainable means for develop ment, which is key to 
ensuring a sustainable and cleaner future for all. 
 
14. The failure to act and implement such initiatives to counter the effects of climate 
change will guarantee the rapid deterioration of our planet , our people, our islands, and 
our cultures. 
 
15. Chair, al low me to call on world leaders to seek solutions that focus on 
 accelerating actions and increasing ambition and to also take concrete action 
 nationally and in doing so we may discontinue existing in this ‘Tragedy of t he 
 Commons’ 
 
16. Finally as Chair of the Pacific Small Island Developing States (PSIDs) , 
a group statement will be attached herein and uploaded to the UNFCCC website. 
 
 Thank you Mr. President , 
 
Malo ‘aupito 
 
  
 
25. In this regard, the work of WMO on GFCS is welcomed, and again we call 
for development partners to utilize this framework to assist SIDS with enhancing 
their observation systems, including for ocean acidification. 
 
26. We request that the development partners heed our call for greate r 
financial and technical resources to be provided in particular to SIDS regions. 
 
 
We thank you, Mr. President. 
 