 Mr. President and Excellences , 
    On behalf of the Nigerian delegation, I have the pleasure to congratulate you on 
your elect ion as the President of COP21 and assure yo u of our full support as you 
lead our deliberations.  The political momentum generated by the recent universal 
adoption of the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development by the United Nations 
General Assembly in New York provides the appropriate context for engagement at 
this Conference of Parties. The Paris outcome must result in a legally binding 
Agreement that ensures a sustai nable future for our people and planet . 
 
2. Nigeria is committed to an economic transformation, which places 
inclusive green growth at its heart. This transformation is reflected in my country’s 
ambitious INDC.  We have announced our plans to reduce emissions by 20% below 
BAU by 2030, rising to 45% with the support of the international community. These 
are actions we can and are determined to take to support our common interest in 
addressing the global c limate cha llenge. Our renewed urgency comes from 
recognition of the grave social, economic and environmental threats that climate 
change poses to our country. Climate change impacts are already threatening the 
livelihoods of our people. The devastating flo ods the country suffered in 2012 
displaced mo re than 2.1 million Nigerians are a stark reminder of our vulnerability . 
3. Further more, we are acutely aware of how climate variability can aggravate 
social unrest and provide a breeding ground for conflict a nd mass migration. For 
example, Lake Chad in the North East of our country is today a mere 10% of its 
original size, having shrunk from 25,000 sq. km to barely 2,500 sq. km in 25 years 
and livelihoods have been lost thus exacerbating poverty. 
4. Nigeria f ully aligns itself with the principles of climate justice to achieve a 
human -centred approach towards safeguarding the rights of the most vulnerable and 
lifting the burdens and sharing the benefits of climate action. Women, children and 
youth must be integ rated throughout this Agreement. Recognising women 
empowerment and rights will be key to success here in Paris.  We must also 
recognize that sustainable transformations will be need ed to protect human health 
and welfare for our populations 
 
 5. Mr President, Nigeria ns have high expectation s of this Conference. Paris 
must give us an agreement that will equitably promote climate change mitigation, 
adaptation and resilience based on effective means of implementation through 
adequate financing, technol ogy transfer and capacity development. Developed 
countries have a further responsibility of taking the lead in emission reduction s, and 
also to fulfil obligations to provide finance, technology and capacity to developing 
countries in support of their own m itigation and adaptation obligations. It is our 
fervent hope that these implementation modalities will be explicitly enshrined in the 
Agreement. 
 
6. But even though the current focus of INDCs is on the delivery of emissions 
reductions to 2030, we must not take our eyes off the longer -term goal - and the 
emissions pathway that this demands. Ultimately, there is a moral imperative to 
stabilise temperature increases at 1.5 d egrees Celsius . The African Union Agenda 
2063 shows how Africa is committed to contributing and delivering on this goa l. 
 
7. The onus is now on us, as political leaders , to seize this historic 
opportunity to deliver an ambitious Agreement . It is an opportunity that will define 
the physical and economic security of our children and their children. Nigeria has 
shown its willingness to be part of the solution . 
8. I will end with a wise quote from Madiba that says “It always seems 
impossible until it is done”. 
9. I thank you for your attention. 