 
- His Excellency Mr. Manuel Pulgar -Vidal , President of CoP 20/CMP10 , 
- Distinguished Heads of Delegations, 
- Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
It is indeed a great pleasure for me to join you all in addressing the “High Level Segment of the United 
Nation s Climate Change Conference” here in the great city of Lima , Peru . On behalf of the Cambodian 
Delegation, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to the people and Government of Peru for their 
warmest welcome and gracious hospitality, and for hosting this important event. Furthermore, my country 
would like to associate herself with the statements of Nepal on behalf of LDCs and Bolivia on behalf of 
G77+China 
 
Excellency the President 
 
Climate change is no more something of the distant future. Climate change is affecting us now and 
constitutes one of the greatest challenges humanity faces in the 21st Century, a s the severity of climate 
change impacts is going to intensify and amplify . 
 
Cambodia is a country that has contributed the least to the climate change, but one of the most vulnerable 
countries to climate change. Hence we take climate change very seriously in our development agenda to 
support building a greener, low -carbon and resilient society and to contribute to the global efforts to 
address climate change . 
 
We have taken relevant national measures such as building our institutional capacity, formulating and 
implementing our Climate Change Strategic Plan for the next 10 years , mainstreaming climate change into 
planning and budgetary processes . We are conducting pioneering work to build our climate change 
financing and monitoring and evaluation frameworks, and implementing actual measures to build 
community resilience and sustainable livelihoods. Needless to say, more needs to be done to successfully 
overcome the climate change challenges. 
 
Excellency the President, Ladies and Gentlemen , 
 
The new agreement on climate change should be buil t on the key principles of the UNFCCC in ensuring 
sustainable development of developing countries . In this regard, w e believe that i t is important to agree on 
 2key responsib ilities of Parties in the ir intended nationally determined contributions. Annex I Parties should 
determine their politica l commitments and leadership to increase the level of GHG mitigation ambition for 
the pre -2020 period in order for holding the global average temperature below 2°C above pre -industrial 
level. 
 
We support the Doha Amendment of the Kyoto Protocol in filling the pre -2020 emission reduction 
commitment gaps . Cambodia continuously expresses its determination to engage in strategies to decrease 
GHG emission through the implementation of the CDM and NAMAs. However, this should be voluntary and 
based on c ountry priorities and must be sup ported by Annex I Parties in capacity building, finance and 
technology transfer. 
 
It is vitally important that Non -Annex I Parties , in particular LDCs, be supported to take more effective 
action s to adapt to the negative impact s of climate chan ge. Cambodia urges the implementation of the 
Adaptation Framework established in Cancun and its provisions for LDCs process to formulate and 
implement the National Adaptation Plans, as well as the Work Progr ammes on Loss and Damage based on 
each country ’s priorities. Therefore , adaptation should be supported uphold equall y in the new agreement. 
We believe that the role of forest can be incentivized through proper carbon pricing so that REDD Plus 
activities w ill be economically competitive. 
 
Cambodia supports the provision of new, additional and predictable finance from public sources by Annex I 
Parties that should be accessible directly and easily. The private sector , through market -based 
mechanisms , should complement or leverage public finance. We urge Annex I Parties to commit and 
increase their financial contributions to the Green Climate Fund, esp ecially for the LDCs. It is very 
important to have a special treatment for LDCs in receiving and asses sing fund for implementing their 
NAPA and National Adaptation Plan. Such support should not associate with loan condition. 
 
We call for a comprehensive finance roadmap to provide new, additional and predictable public finance to 
Non -Annex I Parties to fil l the gaps in 2013 -2020 . The recent success of High -level Pledging Conference of 
Green Climate Fund is encouraging and we urge Annex I Parties to provide further financial supports to 
meet the target of US$100 billion annually by 2020 . The 2015 agreement should also compose of 
Measurement, Reporting and Verification ( MRV ) of financing, meeting costs of adaptation, development 
and transfer of technology, and capacity building provided by Annex I Parties to Non -Annex I Parties for all 
climate chang e activities under the Convention. 
 
Excellency , Highness, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Cambodia shares the concern of all parties that progress of the negotiati ons has been slow and a number 
of important issues need to be urgently resolved for a fruitful adoption of a new agreement in Paris in 
2015 . In this regard, Cambodia wish es to reiterate our commitment to work with all part ies to address 
climate change. We strongly believe that building trust , political will and adherence to the UNFCCC 
Principles ar e of paramount importance toward a successful conclusion of the agreement in 2015 . 
 
I wish the conference in Lima a great success. 
 
Thank you for your kind attention! 