I bring to you the greetings of the President of the United
Republic of Tanzania H.E. Dr. John Pombe Magufuli, newly elected
and therefore could not be here in person nor send a Minister as he
doesn’t have a ministerial cabinet yet. We also wish to express our
solidarity to the people and government of France following the
tragic events of 13th November 2015.

Mr. President;
The challenges of climate change to a country like Tanzania
cannot be over emphasized. They range from sea level rise
threatening the inundation of small islands across the coast of
Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar to the melting of the ice cap of
Mount Kilimanjaro, with dire consequences for water availability to
downstream communities. Recent estimates during the preparation
of our INDCs we have shown how climate change currently leads to
economic loss of about 1% of the GDP and that we need not less
than 500 million USD annually and over 1 billion USD by 2030 to
address adaptation needs. Despite our vulnerability, we have
undertaken various efforts on our own to address the impacts and we
are ready to do more in terms of adaptation and mitigation provided
we are supported in terms of finance, technology and capacity
building.
Mr. President;
With 53.28 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves discovered,
Tanzania is committed to enhance the use of natural gas which is a
less emitting source of energy and other clean energy sources
including geothermal, hydro, wind, solar as well as clean coal to
ensure energy security for sustainable economic development. We
will however need enhanced technological support and finance to the
tune of USD 60 billion by 2030 in the mitigation area to pursue this
trajectory. With 48.1 million hectares of forested land, the country
has an estimated total of 9.032 trillion tones of carbon stock, thus
making the country a net carbon sink. We are still committed to
continuously conserve these biomass assets for the benefit of the
country and local communities and at the same time supporting the
global efforts to mitigate climate change.
Mr. President;
In our submitted INDCs, the implementation of our actions will
strongly depend on how the international community responds to
our needs in terms of finance and technological support. Water,
Agriculture and coast resources are our adaptation priorities in the
INDCs. It will not be easy to implement these and the mitigation
priorities in the INDCs as well as other climate challenges and pursue
her economic development without international support. We
therefore call upon all parties in accordance with the provisions of
the Convention as well as various partners to support our efforts in
the context of our national development agenda including for the
implementation of the INDCs. We commend Parties that have
offered their pledges to the Least Developed Country Fund, the
Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund and we seek increased
capitalization of these funds to be able to meet their intended
objectives.
Mr. President;
Tanzania underlines that the Paris agreement should be of a
global nature and reflect the objective of the Convention and its
Principles. It should not pose additional burden to developing
countries that still need to grow and reduce poverty. It should enable
developing countries to make smart choices that will allow
investments over the next decades in climate resilient and low
emission development pathways that can contribute to vibrant
societies, robust economies and healthy environment.
The principles of the Convention should remain our beacon as
we navigate our way towards a new agreement within these
remaining few hours so as to address climate change in a more just
and inclusive manner. The agreement should catalyze action that will
keep temperature increase well below 1.5 degrees Celsius by the end
of the century to keep the world relatively safe.
We look forward to a constructive engagement of all parties
and we assure you of our commitment.
I thank you.