On behalf of the Uganda delegation, I would like to express our
appreciation to the Government and the people of Peru for the warm
hospitality extended to us and for the excellent arrangements made to
host this Conference. My delegation looks forward to concrete outcomes
from this COP that will provide the necessary momentum for a final
international climate agreement in Paris next year that is legally binding and
comprehensive with balanced and equitable treatment of mitigation and
adaptation.
We want to express our deep appreciation to the out-going President of COP
19, H.E Marcin Korolec for the effective leadership that he provided. We also
commit ourselves to working with you in delivering the expected outcomes of
COP 20/CMP 10.
Mr. President,

The adverse impacts of climate change are threatening the very survival
of natural and human systems.
Uganda has not been spared from these impacts. In the past decade alone,
the country has witnessed a myriad of disasters with the resultant loss of
lives, property and destruction of infrastructure which have greatly
affected the achievement of our national socio‐economic development
goals. Several of these episodes including melting of ice caps on
Mt.Ruwenzori, the 3rd highest mountain in Africa, are likely to cause
serious consequenceson geo‐political security and severe adverse
impacts to millions of people. Our efforts in tackling these challenges are
seriously constrained due to the magnitude of the problem and the
inherent huge costs of adaptation, addressing the loss and damage
suffered as well as building the resilience of the communities.
Mr. President,
Uganda firmly believes that the collective wisdom of the global
community still has a chance in saving the future of our planet and the
human race; but only if we have the necessary political will to act. We
must spare no effort in taking bold action now as indicated by scientific
evidence in the latest Intergovernmental Panel Climate Change fifth
Assessment Report.
All of us must therefore demonstrate leadership based on the principle of
equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective
capabilities. There is no longer any doubt about this threat and
consequently we have no choice but to ensure that we walk the talk and
save the world from these threats. Uganda will always stand high to be

counted in supporting efforts to address this greatest challenge of our
time.
Mr President,
Let me now emphasize some specific issues that Lima must deliver. These
include inter alia:
1. A single decision on the 2015 Agreement covering all concrete elements
of the negotiating text and on the scope of the intended nationally
determined contributions (INDCs).
2. Decision on the pre‐2020 early climate actions to close the ambition
gap and spur sustainable development benefits particularly for African
countries and the Least Developed Countries. In this regard, my
delegation urges developed country partners to support massive
investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, afforestation as
part of enhancing our national efforts to move to at least 50% use of
renewable energy by the year 2040 and thereby contribute to
mitigation efforts.
3. We also need to streamline public health dimension in climate change
adaptation and mitigation policies and strategies.
4. Decision re-affirming the predictable, adequate and scaled-up climate
financing as well as full operatiionalization of the Green Climate Fund
(GCF) with windows for LDCs to address priority adaptation needs and
Loss and Damage. We welcome the recent pledges made by a number of

Developed Country partners towards the GCF, we strongly call for
capitalization of GCF to at least USD 15 billion which should be further
scaled up to at least 40 billion by December 2015. We note with
appreciation that the GCF is on track to mobilize more than US$10 billion
that will be channelled to priority actions in developing countries in the
short run and therefore ready to operate. We further call for increased
mobilization of resources towards the existing mechanisms of the Least
Development Countries Fund, Adaptation Fund and Special Climate
Change Fund. We support the anchoring of these existing mechanisms in
the new agreement.
5. On REDD+, my delegation calls for concrete decision on full
operationalization of the Warsaw REDD+ decisions and therefore paying
developing countries for the efforts in conserving their forests.
6. On technology transfer and capacity building, we re-affirm our strong call
for a decision to enhance scaled up technology transfer and diffusion in the
most vulnerable countries. In this regard, my delegation wishes to thank the
UN Secretary General for his recent appointment of High Level Panel on
the proposed Technology Transfer Facility for the LDCs and Small Island
Developing States that are most vulnerable to adverse impacts of climate
change.
Uganda strongly believes that the time is now for the establishment of a
framework under the Convention and a dedicated institution solely to

coordinate, monitor, evaluate and report on capacity building under the
Convention.
Mr President,
I would like to conclude by urging all parties to show flexibility in
reaching agreements to make this conference a concrete landmark
towards Paris 2015. We need to act on increasing our mitigation
ambitions, to create effective strategies for adaptation and to apply new
protections for those who are already affected and who will be affected in
the future. The time to do all that is now ‐ for tomorrow will be too
late.
I thank you for your attention.