Mr President, Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Let me begin by expressing the warmest thanks to the Government and the people of the 
Kingdom of Morocco, for hos ting these significant Conferences in their beautiful country 
and the city of Marrakesh. 
 
The adoption of the Paris Agreement and its early entering into force entail great 
changes , which already lead to global unity in the attempt to transform our world into a 
low carbon emission society , resilient to climate change. The daily increase in the 
number of parties joining it , proves th at we are on the right path towards the common 
goal. Croatia’s national ratification procedure is entering its final stage and we have been 
engaged in the preparation of the Agreement within the framework of our membership in 
the EU ever since the beginning of the process. We are therefore keen to continue to be a 
part of the preparations for the Agreement’s implementation.  
 
Mr President, 
 
Although it marked an important turning point, the swift entry into force of the 
Agreement does not ensure transformation by itself, unless we all embed our 
commitment to mitigation, adaptation and securing stable financing into national policies. 
Croatia, although a small country with a low emission contribution, is determined to 
assume its share of responsibility in this process.  
 
To that purpose, Croatia is developing its Low-carbon Development Strategy and 
institutional framework for the per iod until 2030, with a view to 2050 , in order to foster 
socio -economic development based on sustainability principles with reduced GHG 
emissions . 
 
Furthermore, Croatia is particularly vulnerable to climate change the effects of which are 
already noticeable in certain sectors, such as agriculture and tourism. It is crucial to 
establish the climate change adaptation system and take measures to protect from 
negative impacts, reduce possible damage and costs. To that end , we are concurrently 
preparing our National Adaptation Strategy. 
 
Mr President, distinguished delegates, 
 
Croatia firmly believes in the success of the Paris Agreement. The Agreement is 
ambitious, however, we have to keep in mind that , over time, we will have to make our 
efforts even more ambit ious if we wish to achieve our goals. 
 
Furthermore , we understand the significance of ensuring adequate financing for its 
success . We welcome our common efforts in enhancing the Transparency framework 
which will undoubtedly strengthen the mutual trust and assist countries in creating 
national policies.  
 
Likewise, we believe that capacity building is crucial for assisting deve loping countries 
to take effective climate change action. We therefore deem particularly important the 
establishment of the Paris Com mittee on Capacity Building, as well as of the Capacity 
Building Initiative for Transparency trust fund , by GEF. As my final point, I would like 
to mention that, based on our experience, bilateral transfer of knowledge between 
countries is proven to be a n excellent form of assistance and Croatia welcomes such 
initiatives. In this regard, I am proud that the intelligent solar trees that have been chosen 
to embellish this already beautiful conference venue, and which you can see in front of 
the restaurants, have been designed and made in Croatia.
 
Allow me to conclude by reiterating our support for global efforts concerning climate 
change and the belief in the success of the Paris Agreement. 
 
Thank you. 