
Bula Distinguished President,  
At the outset, allow me to convey the warm est greeting s from the 13 4 Member 
States of the Group of 77 and China that are Parties to the UNFCCC, all of 
which are Parties to the Paris Agreement. 
 
Please receive the greeting of President Lenin Moreno and of the Government 
and peoples of Ecuador to you Primer Minister Frank Baininarama for your 
clear leadership and commitment to this process, and also for having brought 
to this COP , the Bula and the Talanoa spirit of inclusiveness , friendliness and 
solidarity, which coincides in many aspects with our vision and concepts of 
“Living Well” and “Armony with Nature”. 
 
Mr President, 
 
Allow me to express our deepest solidarity with all countries that have faced 
extreme weather events during the recent months, which has demonstrat ed 
that the impacts of climate change will not wait until 2020, and that we need 
to act now, if we really want to preserve the life of our present and future 
generations, and protect them from the growing impa cts of climate change to 
our peoples, women and girls, children, indigenous peoples and local 
communities, migrants and refugees, people with disabilities, the ecosystems 
and biodiversity. 
 
In that context, our developing countries came to this COP with a constructive 
spirit , in spite of the uncertain geopolitical context and the attempts to address 
the most important global threat of this century, through the lens of a unilateral 
perspective. 
 
We came here clearly committed to achieve concrete progress d uring this 
COP aiming to continue advancing the Work Program of the Paris Agreement 
towards its completion, while continuing to enhance the full implementation of 
the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol, without any renegotiation or 
reinterpretation of t heir principles and provisions . This means, in accordance 
with the principles of equity and the common but differentiated responsibilities 
and respective capabilities. 
 
The presence of so many leaders from our developing world, is a clear 
reaffirmation of multilateralism, and a powerful signal that our countries are 
and have always been part of the solution to this global threat, but also that 
we need sufficient support in finance, technology transfer and development, 
and capacity building for developing countries. However, the completion of 
that work cannot be done from scratch, but on the basis of a solid foundation 
of action and support to developing countries, as part of an enhanced pre2020 
implementation and ambition. 
 
Therefore, one of the main elements of success at this COP and its follow up, 
would be a clear decision on the follow up of pre-2020 implementation and 
ambition, that includes a stocktake on where we are , in relation to the pre2020 
work, including in the particular context of the 20th anniversary of the adoption 
of the Kyoto Protocol. 
 
Mr President, 
 
Our world is in distress from the extreme weather events caused by climate 
change – destructive hurricanes, fires, floods, droughts, melting ice, and 
several other threats to our agriculture , food security , health and our overall 
development; and yet, th e world is still not clear when the Doha Amendment 
will enter into force, when we will start setting a new collective quantified goal 
from the insufficient and uncertain floor of USD 100 billions per year, and when 
our needs and priorities are going to be taken seriously into account. 
 
Nevertheless, along with the decision on pre2020, we believe that other 
factors of success can be added to this COP, and that is the establishment of 
the “Suva Expert Dialogue ”, as a space for addressing effectively loss and 
damage resulting from extreme and slow onset weather events related to 
climate change, and as an important step towards the full implementation of 
Article 8 of the Paris Agreement and relevant decisions of t he UNFCCC. 
 
Likewise, we are very proud that our Group of countries was able to contribute 
to a longstanding aspiration of our local communities and indigenous peoples, 
so that no longer are considered mere observers of climate change and 
climate action . The establishment of the “Facilitative Working Group of the 
Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities Platform” and the development 
of its workplan are fundamental and concrete step s towards for the full 
operationalization of the Platform for the exchange of experiences and sharing 
of best practices on climate change action in a holistic and integrated manner 
 
We are very satisfied as well about the progress achieved in agriculture, 
capacit y building, education, training and public awareness, public 
participation and public access to information; common metrics; and several 
other important areas for our countries.  
Nonetheless, our Group is greatly concerned over the lack of progress on all 
finance issues and the lack of political will from our partners to advance on 
these issues and for the application of unilateral measures that affect the 
capacities of certain countries to finance their efforts in mitigation and adaption 
to climate change . We require concrete p rogress in climate finance a nd 
certainty and predictability on the provision and mobilization of financial 
resources that will enable us to implement the Paris Agreement. On the 
contrary, several of our countries have experienced the unilateral application 
of eligibility criteria tha t is not agreed, limiting therefore the access of funding 
to developing countries under the GCF and GEF, and indicating a clear 
departure from the letter and spirit of the Conven tion and the Paris Agreement. 
 
We also trust that his COP can delivered on a decision that ensures that the 
Adaptation Fund will serve the Paris Agreement. 
 
The evidence of the increasing occurrence and severity of weather events and 
the costs involved, constitutes in itself a reaffirma tion of the importance that 
our countries assign to adaptation. Therefore, we hope that in the process 
towards COP24, we can make more progress in all the different issues of 
adaptation, including on the guidance on the continuous and enhanced 
international support that shall be provided to developing countries . 
 
Mr President, 
  
We are certainly not satisfied with the slow paste of progress in the 
negotiations this past week and a half. However we strongly believe that on 
the basis of our different visions, models and approaches to achieve 
sustainable development, and a reaffirmed commitment to honour the 
international agreements that we adopted in 1992, 1997 and 2015, and the 
respect of the balance, commitments and obligations agreed therein, we can 
continue moving our canoe in the right direction, towards the achievement of 
the objective and purpose of the Convention, its Kyoto Protocol and its Paris 
Agreement and a strong outcome of COP23. 
The world and particularly the victims of climate change are watching us. We 
cannot deceive them. 
 
Thank you. 