
Your Excellency’s, ladies and gentlemen, 
Allow me to start by thanking the Chilean COP 25 Presidency for 
their leadership and Spain for hosting the Conference. COP 25 
is also called the Blue COP. The sea has always been part of 
Estonia´s economy, life and soul . 
 
The recent IPCC findings on oc eans and c ryosphere hi ghlight the 
devastating impacts that climate change is having and will have 
on the seas, including our very own Baltic Sea. 
 
At the same time it also stresses the opportunities that the seas 
can offer us, such as renewable energy along with creation of 
green jobs . In order to protect our oceans we need to protect our 
climate! 
 
As a member of the European Union, Estonia is committed and 
determined to work towards climate neutrality in the EU by 2050.  
 
To succeed, we need smart decisions today . 
 
Investments in innovation and research, digital solutions and 
green technologies will help us achieve the shift we seriously 
need.  
 
Estonia is acting now by implementing policies and strategies 
that will lead us closer to the goals we agreed in Paris. 
We work continuously with our national long -term strategy. 
We see it as an opportunity to reshape our economy together 
with energy and transport system . 
 
I would also like to highlight the importance of Non-state Actors. 
They are showing u s that the global transition is within reach. 
 
For example, our technology companies have recently signed a 
Tech Green Pledge with the ambition to be carbon neutral in their 
action by 2030. 
This initiative has already spread around Estonia and beyond our 
borders , now covering more than 70 companies across Europe. 
 
Our IT companies have great capabilities in developing green 
technologies. T his market has considerable potential in finding 
solutions for green transition. 
 
Dear colleagues,  
 
Estonia is determined to step towards green transition. But in 
order to reach climate -resilient future, we need to act together 
and achieve a successful outcome at COP 25 ! 
Thank you 