Mr President, Excellencies, 
Reaching the Paris Agreement goal is our shared commitment . Here, in Katowice, 
we can show our will to reach consensus to implement it. 
COP24 can give a clear signal to the world that urgent climate action is possible. 
We can show that the international community is dedicated to act in view of the 
recent IPCC Special Report . 
Successful completion of the Paris Agreement Work Programme is our only 
choice here. Together with the European Union , Estonia supports a common set 
of clear rules that follow the spirit of what was agreed in Paris. 
The Special Report demonstrates the risks of global warming to our societies , to 
the natur e, and to the sustai nable development goals . However, it is equally 
important to keep in mind the opportunities while respecting just transition of the 
economies and the workforce . That is why we are excited to share and learn from 
experiences in the Talanoa Dialogue . 
In Estonia , the Parliament adopted a long-term strategy in 2017, with a view to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050 compared to 1990 . It will not be 
easy, but gives us a good chance to redesign our economy the way it benefits all. 
Estonia is contributing to the cooperation with developing countries. We focus to 
the green technology start-ups and NGOs that export their solutions and know -how 
to these countries.  
   
 
Dear colleagues, 
The Republic of Estonia celebrates its 100 years in 2018 . We have offered a gift to 
the world - the World Cleanup Day on the 15th of September . 10 years ago 50 000 
people cleaned up mismanaged waste in Estonia for the first time. This year 15 
million people did the same in 158 countries . It was certainly a good message that 
we can act together. Particularly for the youth around the world that is much more 
aware of the environmental issues and who sees here opportunities in doing business. 
In conclusion , Estonia is determined to work with other EU Member States and the 
world towards low emission economy . We hope to take a good manual for this with 
us from here! 
Thank you! 
