The time has passed to tell facts about g lobal warming and the rise of 
catastrophic climate change. We are now at the junction where science 
and implementation should meet for positive output . We are witnessing 
history in the making , as the Paris agreement unfolds from being a mere 
negotiation text to a legally binding agreement that entered into force 
in less than a year after adoption.  
As we celebrate the entry into force of the Paris Agreement and 
embark on a new era of global action on climate change, it is 
critical that the momentum carries through to and beyond COP22 in Marrakesh. 
My Country believes that the Paris Agreement has the potential 
to put economies and societies on a path to green, risk -informed, 
and inclusive growth, and move our world towards a net zero-
carbon, sustainable future. The way we, as a global community, 
plan, implement, monitor and report on our work must reflect the 
need to deliver on the promise outlined in Paris. The 
achievement of national climate targets must become one of the 
benchmarks of our success in pursuit of sustainable 
development. 
Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen . 
The exercise that was being undertaken for the past one week is 
enormous. Promising steps are being taken to fully realize the potentials 
of the Paris Agreement. However , we need to move quickly in putting 
in place the implementation framework. Among others, we need to 
finalize the rulebook with respect to transparency, compliance and 
means of implementation. 
In Paris we agreed on a self -differentiated bottom -up approach in 
reduction of emissions. The fact s that such an approach has mobilized 
nationally determined contributions from more than 190 countries and 
that the Paris agreement broke records for mobilizing signature from as 
many countries on the first day it was opened for signature and for 
quickly coming into force are all indications that this new model of
 international cooperation might indeed be what we ought to have 
discovered all along . 
However, we should put our optimism in check. Reports indicate that 
the current nationally determined contributions are not consistent with 
the temperature g oal that we set in the Paris Agreement. As a result, 
there is an urgent need for countries to update their contributions to 
align them with the 1.5 degrees that is required to avoid dangerous 
climate change. 
A self -differentiated bottom up approach also requires an effective and 
robust transparency framework. We agreed in Paris to have a unified 
transparency framework with flexibilities and support for those who 
need it. It is important that we agree on this transparency framework as 
soon as possible , also putting in place flexibilities and support for 
countries such as my own. 
The issue of means of implementation has been a constant item in our 
discussion . It is now time to move from high -level and dogmatic 
discussion to that of targeted and practical ones. 
We should seriously consider the issue of accessibility which in our 
view is as important as that of scale of financial resources. We should 
mobilize resources from everywhere and anywhere. In particular, we 
call for the increased flow of financial resources to support adaptation 
actions in developing countries. Ethiopia pledges to reduce its emissions 
by 64 percent from business as 
usual scenario by 2030. In Ethiopia, we allocate a very significant sum 
of domestic resources to mitigate and adapt to climate change. Farmers 
in Ethiopia allocate more than 30 days of free labor a year in 
afforestation and soil conservation measures. If the poor can do this, 
surely the rich should do more. 
Finally, I would like to conclude by reiterating Ethiopia’s commitment 
and contribution towards tackling the global challenge of climate 
change. 
 
I thank you 