I am the bearer of greetings from millions of Guatemalans who live in the country 
of the eternal spring. 
 
Today, as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Guatemala, and in 
my capacity as president pro tempore of the Central American Commission of 
Environment and Development of the Central American Integration System, I 
ratify our condition as a highly vulnerable region to atmospheric effects, as 
reflected by the German watch Global Climate Risk Index, which places at least 
three Central Americ an countries among the 10 most affected by extreme 
weather -related events in the last two decades, and Guatemala is one of them. 
In addition, the Report of the National Intelligence Council of the United States, 
places Guatemala among the 11 most vulnerabl e countries in the world to the 
effects of Climate Change . Among the factors that affect us are our geographic 
location, poverty rates and social conditions. 
 
The reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have confirmed 
that natural phenomen a represents a serious threat to the food security of the 
population, generates human migration and damages the socio -economic 
dynamics, public finances and governance of our nations. Added to this scenario 
is the enormous impact that the COVID -19 pandemic has had, which deepened 
and highlighted the economic and social problems that Guatemalans and Central 
Americans are experiencing. 
 
Guatemala, has been hit by the effects of climate change with losses in recent 
decades, of approximately more than six thous and million dollars : given this 
harsh reality that we are facing, I request that Central America be recognized 
as a highly vulnerable region to the impact of losses and damages imposed by 
natural disasters and the need to opt for financing options that characterize  
for being of easy access and that come in a timely manner , as well as parametric 
insurance that help s us rebuild the damaged infrastructure as a result of the 
extreme climate change events. 
 
At the regional level, we have also worked to formalize before this important 
space the request for support to the initiative to create in Guatemala the 
Regional Center for Combating Forest Fires , which will promote a prevention 
strategy and a quick respon se to these events, through regional inter -
institutional coordination. 
 
Guatemala is also an example in sustainable forest management, as a result of 
the good work between the central government, the communities and the 
support of the international commun ity. The Mayan Biosphere Reserve is made 
up of more than two million hectares, it is the greatest example of natural and 
cultural wealth. The 12 current concessions are a model of success that allows 
us to protect biodiversity and generate development. This is an important area 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to combat the advance of climate 
change. 
 
Likewise, I call on the parties, with a humble and conciliatory spirit, so that the 
pending works at COP26, still under negotiation, reach the implemen tation 
phase and support the technical guidelines, so that the objectives defined in the 
Agreement of Paris prevail and allows developing and vulnerable countries, such 
as Guatemala and the Central American region , to respond in accordance with 
the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, according to our 
current capacities and national circumstances. 
 
I urge all parties to work at COP26 for a robust and ambitious result, where its 
implementation is based on a guide with clear rules, which has environmental 
integrity as a fundamental pillar, to achieve the objective of limiting the increase 
in temperature at 1.5ºCentigrades. 

In order to achieve the objectives in terms of resilience, adaptation capacity and 
mitigation to climate change , through long -term low -emission strategies, and to 
guarantee respect, protection and promotion of traditional and ancestral 
knowledge, the sustainable livelihoods of indigenous peoples and the inclusion 
of gender equity, in accordance with the fulfillment of the Sustainable 
Development Goals, Agenda 2030, under the principle of not leaving no one 
behind, it is essential to guarantee the financial and technical conditions of the 
Central American countries. 
 
 Thank you! 