Dear Mr. President, dear Ministers, dear Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Hungary as a Member State of the European Union supports the statement delivered by the 
European Union. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to address the joint meeting of the COP22, the CMP12 and the 
CMA1. I would like to deliver the statement of Hungary: 
 
First and foremost, let me express my outmost contentment towards all the achievements we 
have reached globally in just one year, since the Paris Agreement has been adopted. 
Following the signing ceremony in New York Hungary became the very first Member St ate in 
the European Union to finish the national ratification process of the agreement on the 24th of 
May. Furthermore, Hungary deposited its instrument of ratification on 5th October in New 
York when the landmark climate change agreement was triggered to enter into force 30 days 
later.  
Hungary is committed to take action in various fields. For example the level of the GHG 
emission reductions reached 39% in 2014 compared to the level of 1990. In the meantime, our 
country has been actively engaged in the negotiations of the Montreal Protocol for the past 
seven years which resulted in the adoption of the Kigali Amendment that will also 
significantly contribute to the long -term temperature goal set by the Paris Agreement. 
Climate finance is a vital element of the Paris Agreement in which Hungary is taking her fair 
share of work. Hungary’s financial contribution of 1 billion HUF to the Green Climate Fund 
in 2016 will also contribute to the catalyzation of low-emission and climate -resilient 
development in deve loping countries. Recognizing the importance and benefits of bilateral 
cooperation, Hungary is also committed to support partner developing countries in their 
efforts to implement their NDC commitments and accelerate action on climate change. In 
cooperatio n with the Global Green Growth Institute and in the framework of bilateral 
cooperation Hungary has started preparing projects in different African and West Balkan 
countries in the field of sustainable forest management, hydroelectricity, ground water 
treatment, capacity building and setting up a financial vehicle to support NDC implementation 
in developing countries. 
We think that adaptive water management programs bear a high priority in designing our 
international climate finance support. We call for a holistic and integrated approach to water 
management that will lead to better and more efficient use of energy and contribute to the 
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We also encourage a significant allocation of climate 
finance, including the Green Climate Fund, to be used towards water resilient infrastructure 
and services, given the proven links between climate change and risks to water security and 
call on multilateral development banks and other financiers to launch initiatives and 
mechanisms that can assist countries in the preparation and financing of the next generation 
bankable climate -smart water projects. 
I am confident that with the hard work that we all have been doing, we can live up to the high 
expectation raised by the Paris Agreement an d work towards a more cooler world. 
 
Thank you for your time and thank you for listening! 
 