It is indeed a pleasure to be present in this august meeting, 
First of all , I would like to inform that my president his excellency Dr Mahammad 
Ebrahim Raisi was very much willing to attend this summit for not only his 
personal attachment to climate change and environmental issues , but also for the 
legal obligations according on domestic laws and regulation of my government 
to protect the collective right to clean and protect environment of Iranian nation . 
however, on his behalf I would like to extend his best wishes for the success of 
this conference . 

Mr. president 
The government of Islamic republic of Iran is committed alongside with other 
nations to combat climate change and global warming with the full support of the 
Supreme Leader . The government and Iranian environment department whose 
head is of the rank of vice president, devise a very ambitious national plan to cope 
with the consequences of climate change. However, Mr . President , when it comes 
the international cooperation and all stakeholders globally unfortunately my 
country faces an obstacle which is economic terrorism . 
Mr. president 
We are facing a relevant questions raised by members of parliament when they 
are in the legal process of ratification of Paris Agreement, that question is: if the 
Islamic republic of Iran becomes the full member of Paris agreement while 
unilateral coercive sanction or measures are imposed on the whole country of 
Iran, how the government would be able to implement its commitments if it is 
unable to receive any international assistance being financial or technical 
assistance from international community. That question still remains unanswered. 
And I put the same question before you Mr. president and all member state around 
this table why blind coercive measures are imposed on my country and few others 
which not only are inflicting sufferings on a nation but also is undermining the 
global efforts to combat climate change to the benefit of the humanity .

This is the sad long story of taking human issues as a hostage for political 
objective of a few if not one. Thank you Mr. president 