Excellencies, 
 
As Leaders, there is a profound responsibility on our 
shoulders. 
 
Never before have the alarm bells been ringing so 
loudly. 
 
We must rise to this challenge. 
 
I believe we can. 
 
We cannot prevent climate change , we’re well past that 
point, but by acting urgently now, we can limit its 
extent and mitigate its worst effects. 
 
In mobilising our societies, we must recognise our 
people’s concerns and bring people with us – our 
farmers, our workers, our enterprises , our people. 
 
With the cost-of-living and high energy prices , many 
worry about how much the transition will cost and what 
it will mean for their jobs and incomes and living 
standards. 
 
Those are legitimate concerns. We need to understand 
where people are coming from and offer reassurance . 
 
Change is difficult , but we must do everything in our 
power to make the transition just, protecting the 
vulnerable and leaving nobody behind. 
  
 
And we need to do a better job explaining the benefits : 
a liveable planet, cleaner air, new jobs and economic 
opportunities ; a more secure world, with less conflict 
over resources , more reliable energy, fewer people on 
the move from homes that c an no longer support them . 
 
In Ireland, I lead a Government committed to halv ing 
emissions by 2030 , and to climate neutra lity by 2050. 
 
We have a climate law and carbon budget. 
 
We have a new ‘Infrastructure, Climate and Nature 
Fund ’ and a ‘Future Ireland Fund ’ to help us meet the 
costs . This will put billions aside for future investment 
for future generations. 
 
We have a carbon tax to incentivise the shift from fossil 
fuels with money used to ensure a just transition , 
retrofitting our housing stock , installing EV charging 
points, and helping farmers adopt sustainable practices.  
 
 
We have a new Maritime Area Regulatory Aut hority to 
oversee Ireland’s renewable energy revolution and 
harness our vast offshore wind potential , powering 
millions of homes and businesses across the continent 
with clean , renewable energy. 
 
Ireland is a wealthy country . Even so, we are struggling 
to make as much progress as needed. We are constantly 
looking at ways to improve. 
 
I’m conscious of the even greater challenges others face , 
particularly Least Developed Countries and Small Island 
Developing States.  
 
So, the Loss and Damage fund must begin disbursing 
finance as soon as possible. 
 
Ireland will double our climate finance to at least €225 
million per year by 2025, and this year, we will spend 
close to €150 million . 
 
Today I am announcing a contribution of €25 million to 
the new Loss and Damage Fun d for 2024 and 2025. 
 
We will make further contributions thereafter. 
 
So, dear friends, let us also work together so the world 
has the financial firepower and institutions and 
infrastructure it needs to make the journey we need to 
make together.  
 
We have to prioritise investment in energy access and 
low carbon development for the most vulnerable 
countries. This COP must also set us on a clear path to 
a safe and planned reduction in the use of fossil fuels. 
 
Excellencies,  
 
Secretary General Guterrés has set us the challenge of 
turning a year of burning heat into a year of burning 
ambition. 
 
Let us rise to that challenge . 