Thank you, Madam Pre sident. 
Let me begin by confirming Ireland’s support for the statements made on 
behalf of the EU and its Member States. 
I would also like to congratulate and commend both the Chilean COP 
Presidency and the Spanish Government for their excellent management of 
COP25 . 

Ireland has listened to the scientific community - as an island nation with a rich 
agricultural tradition, we welcome the IPCC Special Re port on Oceans and the 
Cryosphere and the IPCC Special Report on Climate Change and Land.  
Through the publication of Ireland’s Climate Action Plan in June this year, 
Ireland sets out over 180 actions required to deliver our 2030 targets, 
embracing every relevant sector and puts Ireland on the trajectory towards net 
zero emissions by 2050 . It is founded upon the relevant science and technical 
advice and is supported by a robust governance framework with reporting on a 
quarterly basis . This continual accountability will ensure a focus ed momentum 
to deliver and achieve our commitments . 
Ireland is also preparing new climate legislation which will be published next 
year and which will include a 2050 emissions reduction target that is consistent 
with our support for a carbon neutral Europe by 2050 . In line with this vision , I 
am pleased to announce that Ireland has joined the Carbon Neutrality 
Coalition, further underlining our commitment to develop a long -term strateg y 
for Ireland that supports the temperature goals of the Paris Agreement. 
 Legislating our long term goal will ensure we safeguard the future for the next 
generation. The demand of our young people has strengthened the fight 
against climate change and I have listened to their calls to act. Ireland 
recogni ses the importance of s upporting young people ’s voices in these 
discussions and I am proud that Ireland co -sponsored the Kwon Gesh pledge at 
the UN Climate Action Summit and that we are supporting the participation of 
young people as part of our national delegation at this COP .  
Ireland has taken steps to ban exploration for oil, committed to a carbon tax of 
€80 per tonne by 2030 and have put in place dedicated supports to provide for 
a just transition for communities affected by the ending of peat -fired power 
generation. This will be supported by a commitment to ring-fenc e all additional 
revenue raised from our carbon tax from 2020 onwards . 
Supporting climate action, and in particular adaptation, in Least Developed 
Countries and Small Island Developing St ates is also a key pillar of Ireland’s 
climate action . This reflects our commitment to reaching the furthest behi nd 
first, especially those who are disproportionately affected by climate impacts, 
and least equipped to cope. I am pleased to announce therefore that Ireland is 
doubling our funding to the Green Climate Fund for its first formal 
replenishment period from 2020 to 2023 . In addition, Ireland has already 
surpassed our commitment made in 2015 to provide €175 million in public 
funding on climate action in developing countries over the period 2016 to 
2020, providing almost €200 million in such funding over the period 2016 to 
2018 alone. 
 
 We must work together against climate change with ambition and realism . We 
must strive for agreement on the remaining aspects of the Paris Agreement 
rulebook. This is an obligation which Ireland is committed to and the time to 
act is now.  
 
 
 
 