
1. I thank the Government and the people of Poland for hosting the UN Climate
Change Conference for the third time, and for the warm hospitality extended to me
and my delegation.
2. A few weeks ago Kenya, Canada and Japan co-hosted the first Global Sustainable
Blue Economy Conference in Nairobi, Kenya. The Conference was attended by over
18,000 delegates from 184 countries; 8 heads of states; and close to 100 Ministers.
The outcome of the Conference is summarized in “The Nairobi Statement of Intent
on Advancing Global Sustainable Blue Economy” including action plans on how to
promote productive and conservation activities in the nine priority areas around the
globe.” A copy of the Nairobi Statement of Intent is available online:
http://www.blueeconomyconference.go.ke/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Nairobi-
Statement-of-Intent-Advancing-Global-Sustainable-Blue-Economy.pdf
3. The Blue Economy Conference recognized the threat posed by Climate Change in
harnessing the potential of our oceans, seas, lakes and rivers and the need for
mainstreaming Climate Change in Blue Economy plans. On behalf of the Kenyan
Government, I thank all the partners and Countries that supported and actively
participated in the Conference to make it a success.
4. In March 2019, two key events will be held in Nairobi, namely UNEA-4 and One
Planet Summit. On behalf of the government of Kenya, let me take this early
opportunity to welcome you all to these events and to Kenya.
Mr. President;
5. The IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5° C underscores the undeniable
fact that climate change is real and that urgent and drastic actions are needed in
order to avert a global climate change-induced disasters. Kenya therefore joins other
parties and strongly welcome this report; and urge that the decisions of this
conference be informed by the findings in the report.
6. During COP 24, we have the opportunity to adopt an inclusive and comprehensive
Programme of Work to operationalize the Paris Agreement. However, as we work
towards this objective, we need to be careful not to re-negotiate the Convention or
the Agreement. We must also maintain the principles and spirit of the Convention
and the Agreement including the principle of intra-and-inter-generational equity and

common but differentiated responsibilities. As well, we must give life to enduring
spirit of Talanoa Dialogue.
7. Furthermore, there is need for all of us to recognize that individual states cannot by
themselves alone comprehensively address climate change. International
cooperation; international cooperative initiatives; shared responsibilities and
solidarity are therefore vital if we are to combat climate change. Good faith and
mutual trust are equally important.
Mr. President;
8. For Kenya, like other developing countries, mitigation and adaptation are two sides
of the same coin. It is not a question of “either” “or”. In this regard, access to new,
additional, predictable and adequate climate finance is critical for developing country
Parties to implement their priority adaptation and mitigation actions and meet their
obligations under the Convention and the Paris Agreement. Loss and Damage must
equally be provided for in the transparency framework, global stocktake and
finance.
9. Every year Kenya’s economy loses over 2% GDP due to climate change. Kenya has
therefore put in place the necessary measures to ensure low carbon climate resilient
development at all levels. These include establishment of climate change Legal,
Policy, Institutional and Implementation Frameworks.
10. These measures focus on mainstreaming of climate actions into all sectors including;
promotion of Climate Smart Agriculture to enhance food and nutrition security;
expansion in renewable and clean energy to improve energy security; sustainable
management and conservation of forests to enhance our carbon sinks; climateproofing
infrastructure to build the resilience of our communities and ecosystems.
11. The National Climate Change Council, chaired by the President himself provides the
requisite political and strategic direction and sectoral coordination mechanism for
implementation of climate change responses. The Council includes representatives
of the national and sub-national governments, civil society organisations, private
sector, academia, and indigenous communities.
Mr. President;
12. In conclusion, the time for action is now. Let us all rise to the occasion. Let us save
Our Planet.
I thank you all.