
It is my great honor to represent His Highness Sheikh Nawaf Al-
Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the State of Kuwait, and His
Highness Sheikh Mishal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the Crown
Prince of the State of Kuwait, as we extend our heartfelt wishes for
success in the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties
to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.

I would also like to express our sincere gratitude to the United
Arab Emirates for their warm reception, generous hospitality and
meticulous organization of this crucial international conference which
is a testament to the high-level international participation it has
garnered.

Your Majesties, Excellencies, and Highnesses,

The State of Kuwait, aligned with the global community's
commitment to mitigating the impact of climate change on our
planet, recognizes the paramount importance of managing the
climate change portfolio at the national level. This involves the
development of programs and plans capable of reducing emissions
and implementing low-carbon development strategies across key
sectors such as oil and gas, energy, transportation, industry, land use
and agriculture. These strategies incorporate a comprehensive
roadmap for achieving sustainable economic growth, utilizing
innovative technical solutions in the realm of the circular carbon
economy.

In pursuit of addressing the adverse effects of climate change on
social, economic and security fronts, as well as its repercussions on
food security and public health, the State of Kuwait, through the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, has contributed to a
range of low-carbon development projects in developing countries.
The Kuwait Fund has financed projects in 105 countries totaling more
than $23 billion, with approximately $523 million specifically
allocated to green initiatives in the past decade. Additionally, in 2017,
Kuwait, through the Kuwait Investment Authority, joined the One
Planet Initiative for sovereign wealth funds, aligning investment with
climate change goals to transition towards a resilient, low-carbon
economy.

Your Majesties, Excellencies, and Highnesses,

The State of Kuwait has played a substantial role in the Clean
Development Mechanism program under the Kyoto Protocol,
presenting 14 projects aimed at reducing carbon emissions. We look
forward to active participation in both market and non-market
mechanisms, fostering collaboration within Article 6 of the Paris
Climate Agreement, which strives to reduce emissions and uphold the
principles of sustainable development.

In line with the Paris Agreement, particularly paragraph 19 of
Article 4 focusing on long-term strategies, the State of Kuwait is set to
deposit a low-carbon strategy with the agreement's secretariat in the
near future. This strategy aims to achieve carbon neutrality in the oil
and gas sector by 2050, paving the way for the entire State of Kuwait
to attain carbon neutrality by 2060, anchored in the principles of the
circular carbon economy.

Finally, I would like to reiterate our sincere gratitude and
appreciation to the leadership, government, and people of the United
Arab Emirates. We wish this conference resounding success.



