 Madam President, 
Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
At the outset, I would like to extend my sincere congratulation s and appreciation s to 
the Government of Chile and Spain for their join t efforts to host and presid e the 
confe rence and the warm welcome and hospitality. 
Madam President, 
The Lao PDR has been , among other countries, experiencing the impacts of climate 
change . The majority of its population remains highly vulnerable to climate hazards 
in particular floods and droughts and 70% of the population depending on natural 
resources for their livelihoods . Therefore , the impacts of climate change is one of 
our difficulties against the country’s development . 
This year , again, the same pattern of natural disasters revisited. U nexpected heavy 
rainfalls from tropical storms resulted in countrywide floods and landslides causing 
enormous damage to infrastructures, agricultur al production s , and livelihoods. 
Madam President, 
Realizing the importance of combatting climate change, the Lao Government has 
tak en great focus in the implementation of the Paris Agreement together with a few 
series of tasks including (1) mainstreaming Nationally Determined C ontribution i nto 
our development priorities since 2016 ; (2) newly creation of two new legal tools in 
2019 which are D i saster M anagement L aw in June and PM decree on C limate 
C hange in September ; (3) building of the National Adaptation Plan P rocess which 
is currently in its inception stage ; and (4) building of the Climate Change Strategy 
is under revision . 
Moreover, enhanced coordination on the environment and climate finance has 
become a reality when the Lao PDR was recognized as the 1 st country organizing a 
National GEF - GCF coordination engagement dialogue in February this year.  
Madam President , 
The Lao PDR has invested in clean energy with 94% of our population having access 
to electricity. Not only have ability to supply clean energy nationally, but also to 
our neighboring countries which contribut e to the reduc tion of their emissions 
through cleaner source. Having abundan ce in clean energy resources lays a strong 
foundation to pursuit a low - emission development pathway. 
On climate action, we believe that the technical support from key partners is essential 
to strengthen our resilience and ensure sustain ability , inclusive ness and green 
growth . With the valuable support of our partners, much progress has been made for 
Lao PDR . For example, this year, Lao DPR has been approved with 5 climate related 
projects. 
Madam President , 
Finally, I wish to reaffirm our strong commitment to achieving our common goal 
and we always stand ready to continue working closely for the success of this 
Conference and of the Convention. 
 
I thank you for your attention. 
 