
I congratulate you and the Government of Chile on your election as President of COP 2 5. I also 
wish to thank the Government and People of Spain for the hospitality extended to my delegation. 
 
Under Chilean leadership we envisage that the outstanding issues from the “rulebook ” on the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement will be concluded. 
Liberia wishes to register its support of the statements made by Palestine on behalf of the G77 and 
China , by Egypt for the African Group, as well as Bhutan on behalf of the Least Developed 
Countries, and the Maldives on behalf of SIDS. 
Excellencies, this COP25 follows a year of increased activism and public concern about the 
impending climate crisis. We have seen increased action by the youth across the world to bring 
attention to the urgency required in ensuring that climate change is halted and that those who will 
face the worst impacts from it are supporte d. We have also, simultaneously, seen an increase in 
global emissions. The Liberian youth is striving to ensure their voice is heard globally, and we 
encourage increasing participation through initiatives like the Action for Climate Empowerment, 
which can provide a framework for their voice. 
Excellences , may I inform you that my country continues to experience climate hazards and the 
consequences of the climate crisis . Examples such as coastal erosion, flooding, frequent tropical 
storms, disruption of the agricultur al system, and the outbreak of water vector borne diseases come 
to mind . These crises serve to undermine my government’s national development plan (the Pro 
Poor Agend a for Prosperity and Development ). Climate change is compo unding our existing 
socio -economic challenges – it has not spared the subsistence farming communities or urbanized 
coastal populations. 
And yet, Excellencies, Liberia is raising ambition. The revis ion of our Nationally Determined 
Contribution this coming year provides the opportunity to pursue both adaptation and mitigation 
actions through nature -based solutions. Sustainably managing land resources can help address 
climate change. However, without adequate investment, our forest stocks, our mangroves, a nd our 
biodiversity are threatened by the very need for subsistence and livelihoods , which can be 
environmentally intensive. 
On transparency, we are s trengthen ing our in-house capacity to track progress on national 
commitments made under the Paris Agreement through the Capacity Building Initiative for 
Transparency. This includes improved understanding of our emissions levels and improved cross -
sectoral coordination to implement meaningful environmental protection. 
 
Excellencies, we have been able to engage in such capacity building through the provision of 
finance. The role s of the Adaptation Fund, the Least Developed Countr ies Fund, the Global 
Environment Facility, and the Green Climate Fund are therefore keenly observed. In fact, Liberia 
will be playing host to the Informal Board Meeting of the Green Climate Fund in February 2020 
and hopes that this will be an opportu nity for the Board to understand the real and urgent needs of 
Least Developed Countries for long term predictable financing to combat climate change. 
 
The coming into force of the implementation of the Paris Agreement in 2020 will require a global 
effor t of working together to reverse the impacts of climate change – the time for action is now . 
 We want to reaffirm our commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement and encourage global 
emissions reductions for the sake of all our futures. 
 
 
I Thank You All. 
 