
Excellencies, Heads of State and Government;
Her Excellency Madam Clar Marie Weah, First Lady of the
Republic of Liberia;
Your Excellency the Secretary General of the United Nations;
The President of the 26th United Nations Climate Change
Conference;
Heads of International Organizations;
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen;:
This year’s COP26 is taking place at a time when the world is
having to learn to live with the devastating and disruptive
consequences of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic. Climate
change, like COVID-19, presents an even bigger threat to the
world and to our common humanity.
We have therefore gathered here at this 26th United Nations
Climate Change Conference to seek common action to save our
planet, and bring equity and fairness to how we achieve these
objectives under the Paris Accord on Climate Change.

Upon taking the leadership of my country in 2018, one of the first
major steps that I took was to ensure the ratification of the Paris
Agreement in that same year. This was a demonstration of my
Government’s highest political commitment to ensure that Liberia
is among the comity of nations working together in addressing the
challenges of climate change.
In June of this year, I convened a National Climate Change and
Environment Conference to mobilize my citizens and partners in
working together to urgently address the critical issue of climate
change and environment. Liberia’s Revised Nationally
Determined Contributions were presented and adopted at that
Conference, and have subsequently been submitted to the UN
Climate Change Secretariat.
Your Excellencies, we welcome the U.S. Government back to the
Paris Agreement, and urge strong U.S. leadership and
commitment in placing the world on a path to meeting our climate
change targets, and in assuring fairness and equity among
advanced and developing countries.

Liberia therefore looks forward to joining and leading in the U.S.
Government’s Conserve Global Forest / Carbon Sink Program,
and to joining similar programs launched by other advanced
nations.
With the largest forest cover of more than 43% in the Equatorial
Guinea rainforest, Liberia serves as a major hub for carbon
sequestration. This natural endowment is a buffer not only for us,
but the larger world. We are a major part of the global lungs which
make it possible for the industrial world to breath.
It is our intention to maintain these forests in prime condition, and
that is why we have outlined in our Revised Nationally
Determined Contributions specific climate-resilient and
adaptation measures that we are determined to implement in
order to guarantee the wellness of these global lungs.

Since signing the Paris Accord, Liberia has lived up to its promise
to reduce deforestation from logging and timber production and
from agriculture. We have expanded our protected forests, and
we are prepared to protect more forests and to intensify our work
with local communities to expand their options for food and fuel in
order to reduce pressure on forest resources.
However, is this high level of forest conservation paying off for
Liberia?
EXCELLENCIES, DISTINGUISHED LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
We are all aware that there is an inherent imbalance in the current
architecture of climate financing. Countries like Liberia, who
maintain and protect the largest remaining tracts of forest
reserves, receive the lowest benefits for these ecosystem
services. We who are the richest in terms of forest resources and
biodiversity, are the poorest in terms of socio-economic
development.

Although we bear the brunt of the impact of climate change, we
benefit the least from the existing solutions and financial
arrangements currently in place for tackling climate change.
In order to address this imbalance, there needs to be a
fundamental shift in the way we tackle this mismatch in climate
investments today.
I believe that one of the ways that this can be done is to establish
an African Carbon Credit Trading Mechanism. With your
support, Liberia will be willing to host a conference in the near
future to explore the details and structure of such an entity. We
will work with pan-African and other global financial institutions to
develop a long-term regulated market for African carbon credit.
I am convinced that these initiatives will increase the chances for
all African countries that depend on their forest reserves to attain
sustainable economic growth and national development in line
with the vision set out in the 2030 Agenda.

Excellencies, accessing climate finance is key for Liberia in order
to achieve our revised climate change ambitions. Even as we
recognize the roles of the various climate financing mechanisms
such as the Green Climate Fund, Global Environment Facility,
Adaptation Fund and many others, we must acknowledge that
there is a huge gap in climate investments today. We therefore
need to re-imagine what a successful future looks like in climate
financing, and this will require fundamental shifts in the way we
think.
Therefore, even as we intensify our ecosystem protection, we are
determined to join other forested countries in Africa to expand
resources available to us for achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals.
Here at COP 26, we must find a strategic balance between
mitigation and adaptation on the one hand, and commitment to
climate financing on the other hand. Developed countries must
translate the principle of leaving no one behind into action,
through the mobilization and scaling up of capital flows for energy
development and energy transition for the African continent.

We as global leaders must collectively adopt a new mindset of
appropriate and urgent action in the fight against climate change,
that will fully address the three goals of the Paris Agreement:
Mitigation, Adaptation and Finance for a net-zero carbon emission
by 2050.
Together, we can make a difference as a shared community of
global citizens with a common destiny. Together we can heal the
world from the scourges of climate change. Together, we can
save this earth from the deadly consequences of global warming.
Together, we can bring humankind into harmony with nature.
I thank you.