
First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the people and Government of Poland 
for their warm and welcoming hospitality. 
The IPCC special report on 1.5 degrees is a wake-up call. We are here at a breaking point. 
Toadress this global challenge itneeds ourcollective effort! The Paris Agreement
demands joining forces. Allofus,small orlarge states alike, must make ambitious efforts
based onnational capacities.
The process ofimplementation hasbegun. Wehave totake decisive decisions here atCOP
24 and act as leaders. Today, we all must act together and collaborate in addressing 
climate change. Therefore, we need to agree on a robust common set of rules to 
operationalise theParis Agreement. This isourgoal forCOP 24.Ifwesucceed in2/2 
translating theresults ofthis COP initscomplexity toconcrete actions, then wewill
succeed in achieving our common goal. We have to ensure the environmental integrity of 
therule setbeing applicable forallparties.
In Liechtenstein the two degree world is already a reality. The average temperature 
increased by almost two degrees since the temperature recordings started in 1871. As an 
alpine country wegotthis year afirst impression what thefuture might look likethis year.
The future might be unpredictable but science gives us a rather good impression of what 
wemight have toexpect aswell asofwhat wecanstilldo.
AsMinister forHome Affairs, Education and Environment, Iseehow strongly climate
change affects other areas than theenvironment onadaily basis. In the area of Home 
Affairs, itisalready clearly visible that various areas oflifearealready affected bya
warming climate and that new challenges evolve intheareas ofcivil protection aswell as
economic and infrastructural security.
I have heard the wake-up call of the science base. Great accomplishments start with small 
actions. There isnotmuch time left, ifwewant toreach the1.5degree goal. Therefore,
wemust start thetransformation toacarbon neutral future here inKatowice! The time to
act is now! 
In Liechtenstein we decided to act:
I am pleased to announce that Liechtenstein is working on a long term climate strategy 
and Icanassure you that wewillcontinue ourcommitment and contributions inthe
working process. Our Energy strategy 2030 isinpreparation along with ourEnergy Vision
for2050. Furthermore, incooperation with ourfinancial sector westrive tofoster
sustainable growth through green finance. Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen
let us take courageous and decisive decisions for a sustainable future!
Thank you! 