
 Your Excellences, 
1. I am honored to address you today at th is Resumed High Level 
Segment of COP28, where we gather to discuss and commit to 
championing ambitious climate action. 
 
2. I am acutely aware of the profound impact that climate change is 
having on our nation and the entire world. It is with a sense of 
urgency, responsibility, and shared commitment to our planet's well -
being that I stand before you today. 
 
3. Malawi, like many countries, has witnessed the devastating 
consequences of climate change. Our people have suffered from 
extreme weather events, prolonged droughts, floods, and 
unpredic table agricultural seasons. These events have threatened 
food security, water resources, and th e livelihoods of our citizens 
making it hard for our nation to attain the sustainable development 
we need . It is our moral duty to take decisive and collective a ction 
to address this global crisis. 
 
4. Malawi is fully committed to accelerating our efforts to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and build resilience in the face of climate 
change. Our revised Nation's Nationally Determined Contributions 
(NDCs) reflect our d edication to these objectives. 
 
 Excellencies 
5. We have convened here at COP28, as leaders from across the 
globe, to address the defining challenge of our time – the existential 
threat posed by climate change. We need to work hard at this COP 
to make progress in all fronts , the success of this COP will be 
measured by the outcomes we take, including finalization of the 
discussions on the operationalization of the loss and damage fund 
and its funding arrangements, and the first Globe stock take (GST) . 
 
6. Let me highlight on what a successful outcome would look like for 
my country, and I am sure for many of the developing countries, 
particularly the LDCs and African countries . 
 
7. Firstly, on loss and damage, we welcome the adoption of the Fund 
and its funding arrangements at the opening session of yhis COP, 
and also the pledges and contributions that have been announced 
to the Fund. As a vulnerable country, I urge the players that will be 
operationalizing this Fu nd to design quick access procedures for our 
vulnerable communities to start benefitting in order to address the 
losses and damage s incurred d ue to climate -related disasters. 
 
8. Distinguished ladies and gentlemen , this COP will also be tested on 
how we will deliver the first Globe Stock take (GST) under the Paris 
agreement. Malawi stands united with the international community 
in recognizing the importance of this first global stock take . We  
 believe that it is an opportunity to assess our collective progress in 
achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
 
9. We must review our commitments, reassess our targets, and 
recalibrate our efforts to align with the latest climate science and 
the urgency of the situation. 
 
10. We are convinced, therefore, that, at the minimum, t he global 
stock take should provide clear guidance for enhanced climate 
action. The outcomes of this process should offer concrete 
recommendations and pathways for countries to strengthen their 
commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting 
to the changing climate. 
 
11. The outcomes of the first GST should also address the need to 
scale up support to developing countries , particularly in fulfilling the 
finance gap and setting up an ambitious new collective quantified 
goal on climate fin ance that we are set to adopt next year. This will 
ensure that Least Developed Countri es including Malawi are not left 
behind in the fight against climate change. 
Excellences 
12. Let us all remember that o ur actions today will shape the future 
of our planet, a nd we must not squander this opportunity. The 
Republic of Malawi stands ready to collaborate with all nations, 
large and small, south and north, east and west, in this endeavor.  
 
13. Esteemed leaders let us use this platform to make commitments 
that will leave a lasting legacy for our world and the generations to 
come . Let us be guided by the principles of justice, equity, and 
sustainability as we work toward a more resilient, low -carbon, and 
prosperous future. 
 
14. Thank you, and may we all work together for the well -being of 
our mother planet Earth and its people. 