
On behalf of the Government and the people
of Malawi, my delegation and I wish to
congratulate Chile and Spain for the wonderful
organization of the Conference here in Madrid.
Madam President, Malawi would like to
subscribe and associate itself with the
statements made by the Chairs of the Group of
77 and China, the African Group as well as the
Least Developed Countries.
Allow me also to join my fellow Ministers and
Heads of Delegation, who have spoken before
me, in affirming that the impacts of climate
change, are having real consequences on
people’s lives and livelihoods. It is therefore my
expectation that COP25, being held here in
Madrid, will provide the critical momentum, for
urgent and immediate action to combat this
climate emergency.
Madam President, in March this year, some
parts of Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe
were hit with heavy rains, which caused floods,
due to Tropical Cyclone Idai. In Malawi alone,
975,000 people were affected, 87,000 people
were internally displaced, 60 people lost their
lives and 672 people were injured. Damage
and losses on account of the floods were
estimated at two hundred million United States
dollars (USD 200,000,000) while three hundred
seventy million United States dollars (USD
370,000,000) is required for recovery and
reconstruction. This is climate injustice.
Madam President, key economic sectors of our
country are being adversely affected by
climate change. These include: generation
and supply of hydropower; agricultural
production; and ecosystems resilience; to
mention a few. There is resurgence of human
and agricultural pests and diseases. The
Country is losing her long and hard-earned
infrastructure, development and economic
gains. This is not justified, considering, that
Malawi’s greenhouse gas emissions stand only
at about 0.07 metric tons per person, a very
low figure at the international scale.
Madam President, at the Heads of State and
Government Summit Roundtable discussions.
our Heads of State and Government, including
my State President His Excellency Professor
Arthur Peter Mutharika, provided the political
direction on how we can forge ahead, to raise
climate action and ambition. They highlighted
the need for ambitious targets, as we revise our
Nationally Determined Contributions; the need
to scale up climate finance, particularly from
international public sources; as well as provision
of affordable and relevant technology, and
capacity building.
Madam President, to achieve our vision for
climate change management, we urgently
require predictable, adequate and accessible
means of implementation, including financial,
technological, and capacity building support.
We therefore call upon developed countries to
raise their ambition in the mobilization, and
provision of these resources, using the 100
billion United States dollars a year by 2020 as a
floor. We call for extension of the discussion on
long-term finance to go beyond the year 2020.
Malawi also urges our developed nation
partners, to accelerate their carbon-reduction
efforts and to strengthen national pledges,
including achieving carbon neutrality by 2050.
I thank you all for your attention.