 1 Thank you, Mr President , 
 
Allow me to start by congratulating the leadership of the 
United Arab Emirates for the COP28 impeccable 
organisation and the ambitious outcomes the COP 
Presidency aims to achieve. 
 
Science has always been clear. 
 
But today we are not dealing about possible shocking 
events only. 
 
Today we are dealing with an alarming reality that some 
of us have been going through , particularly 
Mediterranean countries like Malta who have 
experienced one of the worst summers in recent history. 
 
It was during the COP21 in Paris that the momentum for 
putting a cap of not more than 1.5 degrees Celsius 
increase in temperature was set. 
 2 This is no mean feat , but by acting seriously together we 
can achieve the ambitious targets we have set. 
 
Malta is one of the smallest island states in the world. 
 
Potentially it can be one of the worst hit too. 
 
Being small does not mean that we should do less. 
 
We understand the challenge in front of us and the 
responsibility we have. 
 
That’s why we are punching far above our weight. 
 
Being an EU Member State , we are working hard to 
achieve a 55% emission reduction by 2030 from the 1990 
levels. 
 
Malta has achiev ed a lot during the past years , but we 
want to be more ambitious and do much more. 
 3 Having the lowest gross emission per capita among the 
EU Member States means that our efforts need to be 
sturdier. 
 
In the past 10 years we reduced our Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions from the energy sector by 60%. 
 
We have increased our renewable energy share from 
10MW in 2012 to 230MW in 2021. 
 
And this is not enough. We want and we will do more with 
ambitious projects in t he pipeline. 
 
Our onshore area is limited. 
 
Our offshore potential is immense. 
 
This does not come without its own challenges 
particularly when it comes to the bathymetry around our 
island . 
 
But challenges make us work harder . 4 
Saying that we want to be climate neutral by 2050 is a 
conviction we are working hard on. 
 
We are committed, more than ever in having the first 
Global Stock Take during COP28 that can truly help us 
achieve the systematic changes we need to help reach 
our ambition. 
 
Change requires reform, particularly when it comes to 
unlocking private financial investments to achiev e climate 
neutrality and to make sure that we channel financial 
flows through global economic systems ensuring 
accessibility by the most vulnerable state s. 
 
We will always walk the talk. 
 
Nationally, our very own water utility company has been 
one of the first European utility companies to issue green 
bonds for retail investors. 
 5 Internationally, in the past 4 years , Malta has doubled its 
contribution to t he Green Climate Fund twice. 
 
Today 17% of our Overseas Development Aid is 
earmarked for capacity building in adaptation to climate 
change. 
 
As a small island state, I have a clear appeal to all. 
 
Sea level rise is a reality and should be considered as a 
global security threat. 
 
It implies that no States should lose any of its rights 
because of sea level rise. 
 
We will continue emphasising this message as 
champions of the Coalition on Addressing Sea Level Rise 
and Existential Threats. 
 
Through our Island for Islands initiative, we will continue 
supporting Small Island Developing States and we will 6 continue our leadership position in promoting the nexus 
between Climate Change and Health. 
 
We are extremely satisfied to see many parties joining 
this important initiative. 
 
“It is always impossible, until it is done,” stated Nelson 
Mandela and there is no better time than today for such a 
statement. 
 
Let’s join forces and enable humanity to reverse this 
existential threat. 
 
 
 
 
 