
Your Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , President of the United Arab 
Emirates, 
Mr. António Guterres , Secretary -General of the United Nations, 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
At the outset, I wish to extend my sincere gratitude to the Government of the United 
Arab Emirates for successfully hosting the 28th session of the Conference of the Parties 
to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, along with my best 
wishes for a successful summit a nd conference. 
 
Today, humanity is living in the most critical time, having witnessed the hottest 
year on record for global climate since industrialization. We are fac ing the urgent need to 
intensify the global fight against climate change and achieve tang ible results. 
 
Disasters such as extreme heat, fires, droughts , and floods are occurring 
worldwide, causing considerable damage to the environment and human society. Millions 
of people have lost their lives due to war and hunger, and the number of refugees forced 
to abandon their homes has been increasing year by year. 
 
It is deplorable that global military spending has reached an all -time high during 
this challenging period, measured at 2.2 trillion US dollars, as the Stockholm International 
Peace Research Institute reported. 
 
It is time for us to ponder and reflect on what progress could have been achieved 
and how much positive impact could have on the development and progress of 
humankind if that considerable amount of money had been spent on the pressing issues 
of combating global warming and climate change. 
 
 We must never forget that the harmonious coexistence between human being s 
and nature is the very basis of human existence. 
 
Mr. President,  
 
 Since ancient times, Mongolians have believed that the harmony of the Earth 
depends on the purity and consciousness of human inner life. We pursue the pleasant 
tradition of teaching and instilling an attitude and thinking that promotes living in harmony 
with Mother Earth and preserving it in its pristine state to our children from a young age. 
 
 
 
Nowadays, with technology rapidly advancing and deeply penetrating human life, 
our children are becoming increasingly disconnected from the natural world . 
 
Therefore, it is of utmost importance for ever y nation to pay greater attention to 
our children, who represent our future, by instilling from their childhood a traditional 
approach and knowledge to protect nature in their hearts and minds. We must educate 
them as global citizens capable of wholehearte dly participating in the cause of cherishing 
Mother Nature. 
 
The right attitude and active involvement of every human and the efforts, 
responsibility, and political leadership of every nation stand as the keys to success 
towards climate change mitigation. 
 
The recent UN report warned that the situation is expected to worsen while the 
chance to meet the commitments under the Paris Agreement is diminishing. 
 
In this regard, we should heed the words of UN Secretary -General Antonio 
Guterres, who emphasized it as "A canyon littered with broken promises, broken lives, 
and broken records. All of this signifies a failure of leadership, a betrayal of the vulnerable, 
and a massive missed opportunity." 
 
If countries around the world can unite with a shared commitment to a healthy 
Mother Earth and consolidate their efforts in solidarity, mutual understanding, and 
collaboration, the fight against climate change can be mor e effectively pursued, 
preventing the Sustainable Development Goals from slipping away. 
 
In implement ing the targets outlined in the ir Nationally Determined Contribution, 
Mongolia has emerged as one of the first countries to adopt the SDG Finance Taxonomy 
and Green Taxonomy, both aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals . 
 
In this context, Mongolia is successfully implementing inter related national 
movements such as "Billion Trees, " "Food Supply and Security ," and "Healthy Mongolian " 
to bolster efforts toward achieving Sustainable Development Goals. 
 
Soil, food , and humans are umbilically connected. 
 
 Therefore, I am pleased to inform you that Mongolia is joining the initiatives, 
including the "Declaration of Climate Change and Health " and "Emirates Declaration on 
Sustainable Agriculture, Resilient Food Systems, and Climate Action, " to be presented 
during COP28. 
 
Furthermore, I would like to emphasize that countries worldwide should actively 
support the operation of the "Loss and Damage Fund ," which aims to increase the 
necessary funding to achieve goals related to mitigating and adapting to climate change, 
providing crucial support to climate -vulnerable countries, and addressing tangible results. 
  
 
 Mr. President, 
 
The UN report presented in 2022 underscores that women and girls are more 
affected by the a dverse impact of climate change. 
 
Mongolia acknowledges the importance of women's participation and leadership 
in combating climate change ; hence, in collaboration with the UN, we will host the World 
Women's Forum in 2024 to deliberate on this pressing issue.  
 
I am pleased to inform you that Mongolia has proceeded with preparations for 
hosting the 17th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP17) to the United Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) in 2026. 
 
Furthermore , I wish to highlight that the UN General Assembly adopted the 
resolution entitled "International Year of Rangelands and Pastoralists, 2026" at the 
initiative of Mongolia. 
 
In conclusion, I would like to invite you all to participate in the important forum and 
conference to b e held in our beautif ul country, Mongolia, the land of eternal blue sky. 
 
Always mindful of the umbilical connection between humans and nature, Mongolia 
will strive to contribute alongside the international community to protect Mother Earth and 
mitigate cl imate change. 
 
May the Eternal Blue Sky bless the humanity forever. 
 
I thank you for your attention . 
 