Mr. President, 
Your Excellencies, 
Distinguished delegates ,  
Ladies and gentlemen, 
 
It is a great honour for me to address this Confer ence, which we see as a COP of 
actions after Paris agreement entered into force. 
 
I take this opportunity to convey my sincere gratitude to the Government of the 
Morocco who has spared no effort to ensure the success of this Conference. 
 
 Mr. President, 
 
Recent remarkable event  the entry into force of the Paris A greement is  a great 
historical chance for accelerated implementation of the United Nations con vention on 
climate change. The international community needed less than 8 months to pass the 55 and 55 
thresholds since this document was signed in April this year in New York, while we waited 8 
years for entering into force of the Kyoto Protocol . It is a good reason to celebrate , but on the 
hand  this is  strong signal and message  to act immediately to cope with ongoing and 
anticipated climate change.  In my country we do not need to convince people about climate 
change. They can see its impact in everyday life. During the last 75 years period average 
air temperature over the territory of Mongolia has been increased by 2.24 degrees Celsius  
and annu al total precipitation was decreased by 7.3 per cent.  Accordingly aridness  and 
hazard   rates  are increasing  which makes additional pressure on human well -being and 
in some areas  even on human survival.  
Therefore Mongolia was amon g the first group of countries, who ratified the Paris 
Agreement,  with hope that it will  promote to address  existing and emerging challenges 
attributed to the global warming in many, vulnerable to climate change, countries , 
including M ongolia.   We believe that the new principles  and approaches reflected  and 
highlighted in Paris Agreement  in respect of inclusiveness, capacity building, technology 
transfer , finance and others  will allow us to be more close to reach the primary t argets of the 
Convention, lessening the level of risk for humanities from possible unprecedented suffer 
because of climate calamities.  
 
We convinced that multi -lateral and bi-lateral cooperation mechanisms from the 
legacy of  the Kyoto Protocol and  in line with Paris Agreement would play essential role in 
success of our undertakings toward to the implementation of the Convention. 
Mongolia is benefitting for instance , from the cooperation with Japan based on Joint Credit 
Mechanism. Recently the two countries issued their first carbon credits under JCM , which was for Mongolia its very first step toward to contribution to the mitigation of climate change 
through GHG emission reduction. Mongolia also is implementing projects to address 
concerns relate d to climate change and  challenges associated  with sustainable development 
with support of China within South -South cooperation . We have succeeded good results from 
projects supported by the Adaptation Fund. At t he same we expect from new financial 
mechanism like Green Climate Fund. In this regard Mongolia is willing to support all 
endeavors to have different but fully feasible and workable mechanism s of cooperation as 
part of the Paris Agreement. 
 
Mongolia will fully commit itself for th e implementation of the Paris agreement and 
will actively participate in international cooperative activities for the achievement of its 
nationally determined contribution. 
 
Thank you Mr . President 
 