Honourable Ministers and Heads of Delegation,
Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen,
A Very Good Morning!
1. At the outset, the Myanmar delegation would like to express its deepest appreciation to the Government and people of Morocco for your warm hospitality in beautiful Marrakesh.
2. The evidence is clear that climate change is causing serious impacts today, requiring urgent and immediate actions by all. We are here in Marrakesh to begin implementing the Paris Agreement’s goal of keeping atmospheric warming below 1.5Celsius.
3. Myanmar, especially in this historic time of reform, democratization and socio-economic development does support adoption of ambitious goals, targets, and commitments to guide a sustainable future.
4. Last year and again this year, we suffered severe floods and landslides that caused loss and damage to people and property. The 2015 Global Climate Risk Index ranks Myanmar for the third
consecutive year as the second most vulnerable country in the world to extreme weather events.
5. Myanmar intends to contribute to the global climate change mitigation effort, while adapting at national and local levels to increase our climate resilience. We signed the Paris Agreement last April and are now in the process of ratifying it. Likewise Myanmar has developed a National Climate Change Strategy that mainstreams climate change strategies into sectoral and development agendas.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
6. To play our part in this global effort, Myanmar submitted its INDC last year before COP21. Its mitigation focus on forestry and energy helps maintain Myanmar’s carbon-sink status. We are now preparing our NDC by updating our INDC with more concrete, quantifiable data.
7. Adaptation is most important to Myanmar. Building climate resilience remains our absolute priority. Loss and damage is critically important to vulnerable countries like Myanmar, given extreme weather and slow-onset events. That is why we fully support Article 8 of the Paris Agreement and look forward to the adoption of the Warsaw International Mechanism’s 5-year rolling work plan.
Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
8. As an LDC, Myanmar’s base of technical, human, and financial capacities is low. GEF and the LDC Fund are essential to our success. So too is the GCF and developed countries’ pledges of US$100 billion from 2020 onward. Finance is a crucial element of implementing the Paris Agreement and so developing countries require a substantial scaling up from this 2020 floor. Simplified access and support for LDCs will be critical for taking climate action.
9. Pre-2020 means of implementation -- finance, technology transfer and capacity building – are just as critical for mitigation and adaptation as post-2020. We must ensure that the Doha Amendment comes into force as soon as possible. Myanmar will do its part and ratify the Doha Amendment in 2017.
10. For Myanmar’s people and all the world’s citizens, we urge COP22 to generate concrete action, implementation, and support. We stand ready to do our part to implement the Paris Agreement.
Thank you.