
Mr. President,
Excellences,
Ladies and Gentlemen!
At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption of the Presidency. I would like to take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to the Government and people of Fiji for the leadership and Germany for the hospitality offered to us.
I would like to associate with the statements made by Ecuador on behalf of G77 and China, and Ethiopia on behalf of the Least Developed Countries.
Strong commitment has been clearly made by adopting the Paris Agreement to address climate change issues and impacts, individually and jointly by the parties. This is a great achievement in reflecting our strong desire in fulfilling our responsibility towards the global community.
Mr. President,
Nepal emits negligible amount of global greenhouse gases, but climate change has been continuously posing additional threats to people and ecosystems in the country. Despite limited resources, we have made strong commitment and initiatives to addressing the accelerated threats of climate change.
Like many other parties, Nepal is worried about the slow progress in the full materialization of the Convention in spite of several decisions made during the last two decades. As we only have about one year remaining to complete the work programme in finalizing the rule-book of the Paris Agreement, progress on COP23 is crucial.
We look forward for the successful outcome of the Facilitative Dialogue during 2018 that contributes in achieving the 1.5 degree celsius temperature target. Adequate means of implementation and its easy access is key to unlock climate action in developing countries, particularly LDCs.
As we move ahead in implementing the Paris Agreement, our countries should not be burden with additional reporting requirements. In the recent years, we have been inspired with countries taking ambitious climate actions in promoting renewable energy, clean transportation and in building climate resilience. In this regards, we call for countries with
higher emission to urgently contrive activities that helps to maintain temperature increase below 1.5 degree Celsius as guided by the Paris Agreement.
On behalf of Nepalese people, I express solidarity with all the parties for effective implementation of the provisions of the Convention and the Paris Agreement. I urge you all to collaborate with countries like ours with rugged mountainous terrain on the one hand and limited technological resources on the other, in order to enhance adaptive capacity and build climate-resilient future.
At the end, I reiterate the importance of unified efforts among the parties to tackle the climate change and to implement CoP decisions and deliberations in the full spirit of the Convention.
Thank you Mr. President!