
Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 
December 12, 2015 , 7:26 PM. I remember exactly where I was 
and what I did at that moment: I was in Paris and, like many of 
you, I was cheering and applauding . 
At that moment, we all agreed on a historic global, legally 
binding agreement, applicable to all. 
And what a year it h as been since ! 
Almost all of us signed the Paris Agreement in April . 
And now it has entered into force, within a record breaking 
timeframe of less than a year.  
That is a fantastic global achievement . 
 
And global action against climate change reached new 
highpoints after Paris: in October the aviation sector finally 
agreed in Montreal to address its emissions . 
And just one month ago we reached a landmark agreement in 
Kigali on phasing out HFC’s under the Montreal Protocol .  
 
 Paris , Montreal and Kigali gave us good agreement s. And we 
reached these agreements by working together towards a 
common goal! 
This gives people hope , optimism and positive energy , through 
all levels of society! 
To ‘Bring Paris Home’, I organised a n energizing National 
Climate Summit . 
Companies, cities, citizens; t hey were all there. 
They want to bring real change, bring global war ming to a halt 
and make their own effort in combating climate change.  
The Global Climate Action Agenda here in Marrakesh shows 
that this positive vibe is a global vibe : that good, because action 
is needed 
But there are also social concer ns about the impact of the 
transition we have to make. 
People working in the fossil industry, in agriculture, in the old 
economy, worry about their future, their jobs. 
The fundamental economic and societal transition that we have 
to make can only succeed if we do not leave these people 
behind . 
National planning should include action for sustainable growth 
and sustainable jobs for those people affected by this transition !  
 Excellencies , Ladies and Gentlemen, w e will need to continue 
to show leadership to the world . 
Again! 
The Netherlands will take up the challenge to accelerate climate 
adaptation actions. 
Together with UN Envi ronment we are exploring the launch of a 
Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation in 2017 , 
with a broad network of international partners. 
We are also aiming at mobilizing 660 million Euros in climate 
finance in 2017, up from 440 million in 2015. 
And we strive to balance that between mitigation and 
adaptation action. 
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, 
Carbon pricing and transparency of action are impor tant 
conditions for credible and robust markets. 
I am therefore happy to make three other modest 
announcements. 
Firstly I will make a contribution of 1 million Euros to the 
Capacity Building Initiative for Transparency . 
Secondly , I contributed 3.9 million euros to the World Bank to 
support them in their work on promoting carbon pricing 
systems. 
And Thirdly , I have decided that we will not use or sell our 4 
 remaining C lean Development Mechanism credits before 2020, 
we will cancel those credits , equal to almost four million tonnes 
of carbon. 
To conclude , I call on you to give Paris a more than fitting follow 
up. Here in Marrakesh , and at home. 
Let’s make a difference again . Let’s bring Paris into Practice . 
For a just transition and a better world for everyone! 