Let me take this opportunity to first congratulate the Government and 
people of Fiji for assuming the presidency of this COP and convey 
our appreciation to the Government of Germany for th eir support in 
hosting this conference . 
 
I would also like to acknowledge the hard work put in by the 
government of Kingdom of Morocco in their capacity as Presidency 
of COP 22, in carrying forward the climate agenda. 
 
 Mr. President , 
 
I assure you of Pakistan's fullest support to Fiji’s presidency . I am 
confident that under your able guidance this Asian COP would be a 
great success . 
 
The recent climate disasters across the globe, sadly, are a stark 
reminder of the impact of climate induced natural disaster s on lives 
and livelihoods of people . The negative effects of climate change not 
only undermine socio -economic development , they also reverse the 
gains made over decades, pushing people back to poverty, hunger and 
disease. 
 
Mr. President , 
 
Although Pakist an’s contribution to global warming is minimal, yet 
we face huge impact of changes in global climate.  
 
Several scientific studies categorize Pakistan as extremely vulnerable. 
Recurrent floods, heat waves, cyclones, drought, desertification, 
glacial -melt and sea level rise are some of our biggest challenges. 
 
 The threats of climate related challenges have far -reaching impact on 
the government’s efforts to reduce poverty, enhance food security, 
improve health care, and improve access to energy. Nationally, we 
are already incurring 8% of our budgetary resources to address 
Climate Change, creating extreme pressure s on our economy. 
 
Given our Climate Change challenges, adaptation and climate 
resilient development remain our essential priorities. In this context, 
we have taken steps both at national and sub -national levels. 
 
We have adopted a comprehensive approach on disaster risk 
reduction and management and structured policies and institutional 
arrangements for disaster s, mitigation, rescue & relief, recovery, 
rehabilitation and reconstruction. 
 
We are also working correspondingly hard in bringing about 
mitigation within the domains of energy, transport, town planning, 
agriculture etc. Energy sector remains a high priority and we are 
working on altering the en ergy mix; develop renewable energy 
sources and increase the share of nuclear and hydel power to reduce 
carbon emissions. 
  
 Mr. President 
 
In line with our commitment to support global efforts towards 
Climate Change, Pakistan ratified the Paris Climate Agre ement last 
year and also submitted our instrument of acceptance for Doha 
Amendment to Kyoto Protocol. 
 
Given that we only have one year to finalize discussions on the 
implementation of Paris Agreement, we must move from discussions 
to work on the ground. W e need an outcome that will foster greater 
progress and concrete actions towards enabling environment for 
implementing climate action in developing countries. 
 
The Talanoa Dialogue , with its spirit of inclusiveness and 
transparency, would be an ideal and a dditional platform to unlock 
further ambition in the Pre 2020 and Post 2020 process. Enhancing 
ambition, both for the mitigation and for availability of resources, 
remains critical.  
 
Mr. President , 
 
Enhanced action by developing countries requires enhanc ed and 
predictable means of implementation. Securing such levels of 5 
 Climate Finance in the developing world must continue to remain a 
key priority area . The trust and confidence of the process depends on 
this critical element. Continuous progress, deliveri ng on 
commitments and a bolder approach to financial contributions are 
necessary. 
 
For instance in my country, the mitigation has very high potential, 
but obviously with corresponding resources. Our calculations indicate 
that US$40 billion would be required to achieve 20 percent reduct ion 
in Green House Gases. Similarly , adaptation to climate change 
impacts require additional investments of up to US $ 14 billion 
annually . 
 
Again, transparency of support is a very critical aspect and we need 
to make sure that effective mechanisms are put in place to ensure 
this. 
 
Mr. President , 
 
Loss and damage needs action including provision of required 
finances. A robust Warsaw International Mechanism, with tangible 
outputs, is therefore a must as we return to Poland next year. 
 
 Lastly, I conclude by saying that climate does not know borders, 
political systems or cultural diversity – it is a common threat and a 
common challenge. We all must act and act collectively and urgently , 
work together and fulfil our commitments to each other as agreed in 
the process. 
 
Pakistan, on its part, is ready to make its contribution. 
 
I thank you. 