Alii and greetings Prime Minister Boris Johnson, 
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen. Prime Minister, thank you for 
holding this   high-level platform , and allowing us to set the stage for 
COP26. 
The latest IPCC report indicates that our collective action to date is 
not closing the “emissions gap ,” and we are veering off the path of 1.5 
degree warming limit. 
 The Palauan legend of Uab illustrate s our state of emergency . Uab 
was a boy who grew into a giant that wouldn’t stop growing. D ue to his 
unruly appetite , the whole island community was forced to feed him. 
Uab’s feeding deplet ed their natural resources , and finally , he threatened 
to eat the people . To save themselves, the villagers took bold action and 
set fire to him. This is eerily reminiscent of today’s world, as the large 
emitters with their insatiable appetite for advancement are continu ing to 
abuse our environment threaten ing our very survival.  COP 26 must li ght 
the fire.  
 
 Excellencies, we must hold each other accountable. I t is incumbent 
on the Parties to th is Convention to concentrate on Radical Action, 
Consistent Mobilization, and Intentional Outcomes ! 
 As such, Palau expects the set of rules guiding the implementation 
of the Paris Agreement be finalized as a priority outcome of COP26. 
 For Pacific SIDS, the ocean -climate -biodiversity nexus demands 
accountability for NDC commitments, realistic timeframes, and to 
begin bold action by cutting in half our emissions by 2030 to achieve 
net zero carbon by 2050.  
 As protectorates of the world’s largest ocean and carbon sink with 
the establishment of the Palau National Marine Sanctuary in 20 15, we 
urge for the formal integration of the ocean into the UNFCCC process, 
through the Global Stock Take as a fundamental priority outcome of 
COP26.  
 Prime Minister, the Convention must establish equitable access 
to climate financing and viable technological transf er for BOTH 
mitigation and adaptation. We, the islands that are devastated most , 
 demand that your commitments of $100 billion annual ly be increased to 
meet the $4 Trillion dollars the World Bank reports is needed , with 
substantial shares of climate financing to support costly adaptation needs. 
Ladies and Gentlemen, Palau has a long and varied colonial past – 
our contacts with westerners beg an with our chief Ibedul discovering the 
Antelope commandeered by Captain Henry Wilson of England in 1783. 
We w ere then colonized by Spain, Germany, Japan , and last by the US. 
Finally, i n 1994 we regained our independence and sovereignty over our 
lands and seas. However today, we are once again being invaded by the 
most powerful nations on earth by the results of their unbridled 
emissions , exploiting us for their benefit and our detriment. How long 
must we suffer under colonization? 
The scorching sun is giving us intolerable heat. The warming sea is 
invading us. The strong winds are blowing us every which way. Our 
resources are disappearing before our eyes, our future is being robbed 
from us. Frankly speaking, there is no dignity to a slow and painful 
 death. You might as well bomb our islands instead of making us suffer 
only to witness our slow and fateful demise. 
Leaders of the G20 , we are drowning and our only hope is the life 
ring you are holding. You must act now! We MUST act together as we 
say in our Palauan Chant “E ma demalasoi iang, Al eru bekelled eng 
mekngit , ea de tal bekall e, eng ungil diak de kollii iang.” It say s when 
traveling in one canoe, discord among the sailors will capsize the boat. 
This chant remin ds us that we need to deliver on our commitments and 
move in unison toward 1.5 to stay alive. We owe this to each other and 
we owe it to our children! 
