 Mr. President, Excellencies and Distinguished Delegates 
 
It is my distinct honor and privilege to join colleague world leaders at this 
historic Global Summit. 
 
At the outset, I extend my sincere appreciation to Prime Minister Boris 
Johnson for hosting this World Environment Leaders’ Summit. I also express 
the same to Hon. Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister and the people and 
Government of Scotland for the excellent arrangements an d warm 
hospitality accorded to me and my delegation since our arrival in the 
beautiful city of Glasgow. 
 
I also acknowledge the incoming COP26 President, H.E. Mr. Alok Sharma 
as well as the Italian Government’s support in hosting the series of 
preparatory events as co -host of this Summit. I also thank the Government 
of Chile as the outgoing President for their invaluable contributions.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
We meet at a very critical period where climate change continues 
unabated causing the atmosphere, oceans and the land to warm up at a 
faster rate than ever before. This is detrimental to the environmental 
equilibrium of the global community, particularly for those of us from small 
island states.  
  
Papua New Guinea is not immune from the adverse impacts of cli mate 
change, rising sea levels and extreme erratic weather patterns that have 
devastated the livelihoods of the people and ecosystems that sustain their 
lives. 
 
The lower -income and marginalized populations, have been worst hit in 
their weak capacity to ad apt has been telling. This has now been further 
compounded by the onset of the COVID -19 pandemic, which has laid 
bare the structural weaknesses inherent in these populations. 
 
The COP26 Goals are explicit and I join colleague Leader’s in collectively 
calling for a ramp up and an acceleration of ambitions to: 
 
• Secure global net zero by mid -century and keep 1.5 degrees within 
  reach;  
• Adapt to protect communities and natural habitats;  
• Mobilize finance; and  
• Work together to deliver. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
In this context, I reiterate my strong position at the recently concluded 
76th United Nations General Assembly session an impassioned plea for 
major carbon emitters to own up and acknowledge the impact of high 
carbon emissions to Small Island S tates including victims of climate 
change. 
 
We must take actions commensurate to the volume of emissions. Leaders 
of big carbon emitting nations must now lead the global effort in 
rebalancing the environmental equilibrium. We live in one planet, one 
atmospheric envelope, and one interlinked environmental system. Hence 
as one humanity, we must rise and unite to preserve our planet. 
 
We must commit to the energy targets, deal with land use, and advocate 
for the preservation for biodiversity and be bold in financing 
commitments. These issues are important to Papua New Guinea and the 
Pacific Island Forum members hence we seek support for our domestic 
and regional efforts towards mitigation and adaptation. 
 
I want to specifically request the Green Climate Fund (GCF) to consider 
developing a special set of criteria to enable us to qualify and successfully 
draw -down financial support. The level of funding that many Small Island 
States receive from GCF is still insignificant. Therefore, I will meet the 
Executi ve Director of GCF separately on the margins of COP26 to discuss 
and progress this matter. 

Mr. President,  
 
There is great need for all of us to act promptly, responsibly and 
collectively to redefine our policies and actions to ensure that we live in a 
safe, secure and resilient environment. There is a need to make a call for 
all of us to ramp up on our commitments to support taking drastic and 
specific actions. There is a call to ensure that our national commitments 
are clearly announced and that import ant timelines are clarified and 
locked in.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
We must move forward to conclude key elements of the Paris Rulebook 
and give due consideration for the conservation of our global rainforest 
and oceans. In our view, the Rule Book must not be c omplex and difficult, 
but user -friendly to easily access support needed to deliver mitigation and 
adaptation actions nationally and globally.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
To complement global efforts and operationalize the Paris Rule Book, I am 
pleased to inform that Papua New Guinea has embarked on various 
initiatives including submission of our Enhanced Nationally Determined 
Contributions (ENDC) to the UNFCCC Secretariat in 2020 outlining our goal 
to be carbon neutral by 2050. 
 
Recently we launched the NDC Implemen tation Plan 2021 -2030, the NDC 
Regulation and the Roadmap that captures the detailed information of 
each target in the Enhanced NDC. This demonstrates my country’s 
commitment to proactively combat climate change domestically. 
 
In addition, my Government ha s passed Amendments to the Climate 
Change Management Act to guide and strengthen our domestic climate 
change actions. 
 
In forestry, we have ceased issuance of new timber permits and will ban 
export of round logs by 2025. This will be in tandem with the recently 
launched NDC Roadmap for the Agriculture Forestry and Other Land Use 
(AFOLU) and Energy Sectors aimed at achieving the pathway to achieve 
zero-net emissions target by 2050.  
 
To strengthen our commitment to forest conservation and management, 
Papu a New Guinea and the International Council for Research in 4 
 
Agroforestry (ICRAF) will formalize a Host Agreement to develop 
agroforestry domestically on the margins of this meeting.  
More importantly, in our ongoing resolve to promote alternative clean 
ener gy sources, I am pleased to inform that I will be signing a Master 
Development Agreement with Dr. Andrew Forrest of Fortesque Futures 
Industries on the margins of this Summit. This signifies our efforts to transition 
from fossil fuels to clean energy by 20 30. 
 
Mr. President , 
 
In terms of our reporting obligations under the Paris Agreement, Papua 
New Guinea has made serious commitment through submitting its first 
Biennial Updated Report (BUR1) and its REDD Plus Annex in 2019 which are 
milestone achievements.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
In this spirit, we must all remain true to our words and take real practical 
actions to achieve the goals of the UNFCCC and its Paris Agreement in 
order to address the global threat facing humanity. 
 
Thank you and God Bless You All 
 