
Allow me to start by thanking the Presidency of Fiji, recognising the importance of 
having for the first time a Small Island State assuming the Presidency of the COP. 
I would also like to welcome the principles and the spirit of “ Talanoa” that the Fiji 
leadership has been impl ementing in COP 23. 
 
Let me also congratulate the German Authorities on organising this COP and 
successfully welcoming all Parties, thus contributing to the global effort to fight 
climate change. 
 
Mr. President , 
 
Portugal aligns itself with the interventio n of the EU and its 28 Member States . 
We continue to be fully committed to the international negotiations to fight 
climate change. 
 
Climate change is one of the greatest global challenges that Humanity is facing 
nowadays. Our collective responsibility to l ook after our Planet and future  
generations demand truly global responses . Our actions must be guided by a real 
sense of urgency and the need for higher ambition from all of us while 
implementing the Paris Agreement. 
 
Dear Colleagues , 
 
Allow me to welcome once again the swift ratification of the Paris Agreement by 
the remarkable number of 170 Parties so far . This engagement without precedent 
reaffirms our commitment to provide the necessary collective answer to the 
challenges that we are all facing. 
 
Portug al considers that the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement work program to 
2018 for the definition of the Rule Book, as agreed in Marrakesh , is a fundamental 
milestone for the operationalisation and fulfilment of the Paris Agreement 
objectives. 
 
We place great hope in the model planned for the Talanoa Dialogue in 2018, 
which will be a key opportunity to emphasize the progress achieved and to 
leverage the concrete actions showing reinforced engagement and ambition for 
climate action. 
 
We also recognise the esse ntial role of civil society under the framework of the 
Global Agenda for Climate Action emphasising its broader commitment and the 
diversity of solutions and initiatives that are already being implemented. 
 
Mr. President 
 
In Marrakesh, Portugal assumed the objective to be carbon neutral by 2050 .  
To implement this objective, we launched, last October, the Carbon Neutrality 
Roadmap for 2050, initiating a procedure that we intend to be participated by the 
society. This Roadmap, to be adopted during 2019, will establish the path and the 
measures to achieve that objective. 
 
There is no economic growth or reduction of ine qualities without long term 
policies on carbon neutrality. We believe that this is possible and we are 
committed to finding the right answers to make it a reality. 
 
This is the pathway that we want to follow, a pathway that requires making 
choices and, in some cases, creating disruptions with the past, leaving behind 
development models based on fossil fuels and to go clearly for renewable 
energies , energy efficiency, electric mobility, circ ular economy, the promotion of 
sustainable forests, that strengthens carbon capture and farming practices in line 
with this objective. 
 
Dear Colleagues , 
 
Portugal is a country with a convincing track record on climate change policy and 
action . 
 
We have overachieved our objectives under the Kyoto Protocol, and we are in line 
to meet the 2020 commitments for emissions reduction, energy efficiency and 
promotion of renewable energies. We have established ambitious 203 0 targets: 
reduce GHG emissions between 30 to 40 %, on compared to 2005; reach 40% of 
renewable energy and 30% of energy efficiency.  
 
Furthermore, I am pleased to announce that we will proceed with the deposit ion 
of the instrument of ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, 
thus concluding the ratification process and we have already started the 
necessary procedures towards the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the 
Montreal Protocol, which we intend to conclude in early 2018. 
 
Since 2005 Portugal has been on a downward trend in terms of the carbon 
intensity of our GDP. Today we have a wealthier economy with less emissions but 
we want to go further. We need new ways of planning, producing and consuming. 
Over half of worldwide greenho use gases emissions are associated with 
producing basic materials. Two thirds of environmenta l damage costs are related 
to unefficient use of materials and only one third to energy. A circular economy 
model, that maintain resources at their highest economic value and where 
consumers beco me producers, is key to achieve Paris targets. 
 
However, Portugal, along with many other nations present here, is already 
experiencing strong impacts related to the effects of climate change. This 
summer, the fires that have ravaged our forests, exacerbated by severe weather 
conditions and a year of extreme drought throughout the country, had an 
unprecedented human, environmental and material impact. 
 
It is becoming increasingly clear that the costs of inaction are high and t hat if we 
exceed the identified thresholds, the effects of climate change may even be 
beyond our abilit y to adapt, with implications for the functioning of ecosystems, 
the economy and the society as we know it. It is therefore of the utmost 
importance to assume adaptation as a key priority. 

In this context, I would also like to mention the support that must be provided to 
those countries which are the most vulnerable and have less response capacity , 
which are at the same time most exposed to the adverse effects of climate 
change. 
 
Portugal has mobilized resources to support, in particular, the Portuguese -
Speaking African Countries in the implementation of the Paris Agreement, and 
has been funding cooperation projects in the areas of mitigation and adaptatio n 
to climate change, having committed a total amount of 10 million euros by the 
year 2020.  
 
The road to carbon neutrality is also the path to innovation and knowledge, to 
qualification and training, to environmental and demographic sustainability. A 
peopl e-focused path. 
 
To this end, it is essential to reaffirm decarbonisation and adaptation to climate 
change as an investment priority, refocusing public and private financing in this 
direction. 
 
We are all called upon to build greater ambition for the Paris Agreement. We are 
also aware that to achieve results, political leadership and concerted action are 
essential . 
 
This is the spirit in which Portugal became a founding member of the Transport 
Decarbonisation Alliance, together with France, the Netherlands and Costa Rica. 
We believe that mechanisms that set carbon prices are essential tools to promote 
the change towards decarbonisation, which is why Portugal implements a carbon 
tax in sectors not covered by the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme. In  
this context we are a founding member of the International Carbon Action 
Partnershi p and we have recently joined the Carbon Prici ng Leadership Coalition. 
 
Today, Portugal will also join the 2050 Pathways Platform, which is a forum of 
various stakeholders who , like Portugal, are committed to establishing long term 
low carbon strategies, because climate action should be sustained through a 
medium/long term vision. 
 
As recently stated by the United Nations Secretary -General António Guterres, 
“now we have yet an e ven greater challenge: to raise our ambition and keep a 
steady course”. 
 
Thank you! 
 