
I would like to express my appreciation to the Government of Fiji and Prime Minister 
Bainimarama for your strong leadership at this meeting of the Parties. 
 
I also thank the Federal Republic of Germany for your warm hospitality. 
 
Two years ago we forged a n accord of historic consequence. The Paris Agreement stands 
as testament to what is possible when we come together in common purpose. 
 
Today, while some progress has been made, there remain substantive issues that require 
our urgent resolve. 
 
We need to increase the pace of developing the Paris Agreement rulebook, we need to 
quickly address questions on the Adaptation Fund and allow it to serve the Paris Agreement , 
and we need to ensure the same rigour of transparency that will be applied to emissions 
reporting is also applied to climate finance and technology transfer . 
 
In doing so, we will be in a better position to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves and 
reaffirm the message we sent to the world in Paris: a new era of clean, green and equitable 
development is dawning. 
 
Rwanda’s experience has shown us that transformational change is only possible with the 
right legal and institutional frameworks, paired with comprehensive strategies and policies. 
We also know that all sectors of society must wo rk as one: government, the private sector, 
civil society and the scientific community. 
 
By harnessing the best knowledge and latest technology, we can reduce emissions and 
prepare ourselves for life on a planet that is already significantly warmer and will only get 
hotter. 

But to do so, vulnerable countries like Rwanda need to work with oth er nations that have the 
financial and technical know -how to achieve climate resilience. This extends to addressing 
the very real consequences of a warming planet, including health issues from air pollution 
and vector borne diseases. 
 
To conclude, I would like to thank Parties for their support of the Kigali Amendment to the 
Montreal Protocol. 
 
With the potential to avert half a degree Celsius of warming by the end of the century - and 
double that if we invest in energy efficiency - the amendment is one p ractical way to mitigate 
further emissions. 
 
I encourage nations that have not yet done so to ratify the Amendment and begin the work of 
phasing out hydrofluorocarbons. 
 
Such demonstrations of tangible action will spur other nations to invest in the impor tant work 
of climate change mitigation and adaptation, and give hope to citizens that we are 
addressing the challenge with the seriousness and speed it deserves. 
 
Thank you for your kind attention. 