Today, the delegation of St Kitts Nevis comes with one 
simple message – the time for action is NOW! We are here 
at a time when the entire World is languishing from the 
horrors of climate change including sea level rise, extreme 
weather events, and dramatic changes in rainfall patterns. 
We are here at a time when coastal towns and villages and 
even entire islands face destruction ; at a time when lives 
and livelihoods are at stake , all undoubtedly attribut ed to 
human interference.  Yet, enough action is not being taken to 
remedy this situation that worsens with every second 
that the clock ticks . 
We are at a crossroad where t he science is explicit ; that to 
contain climate change to a n acceptable level we must limit 
global temperature increase to 1.5°C.  The latest IPCC 
report indicates that we still have a chance b ut must a ct now 
in order to reach net zero emissions by mid -century. 
Climate change is real and St. Kitts and Nevis has launched 
during COP26 a more significantly ambitio us Revised 
Nationally Determined Contributions (N DC) propos ing to 
reduc e emissions by 61% by 2030 compared to 2010 
levels. Our revised NDC is an example of the leadership displayed 
by most vulnerable countries in particular us in the 
Caribbean and other SIDS and LDCs as we continue to 
demonstrate leadership despite only being responsible for 
7% of global Green House Gas emissions. We suffer the 
most from a problem that we did not crea te. Yet we are 
deprived of much needed climate finance for loss and 
damage, mitigation and adaptation efforts . This, Mr. 
President is unacceptable and it has to change . 
St Kitts and Nevis will heavily invest in renewable energ y 
with plans for a 35 Megawatt solar farm to be operational 
in two years and we continue to aggressively pursue 
geothermal p ower . Climate friendly policies will enable us to advance 
initiatives to reduce our carbon footprint. Our efforts have 
been complemented by the friendship of the Republic of 
China (Taiwan).  
Taiwan has demonstrated its commitment to the climate 
dilemma by enacting appropriate legislation and 
announcing an ambitious NDC including achieving net 
zero emissions by 2050 . Mr. President, with such 
exceptional efforts, Taiwan deserves a seat at the table and 
I humbly ask that Taiwan be admitted to the Convention. 
Mr. President, the gap between where we are head ing and 
where we need to be is far too large and w e absolutely must 
have an outcome that fit s the scale of th is climate crisis .
Let us stand on the right side of history. We cannot wait 
another day , week, month, or year, we need action NOW. 
The World is a global village and the decisions you make 
in the United States affect us in the Caribbean; the 
decisions that you make in China,, Canada and the United 
Kingdom affect the little girl and boy in the Pacific. 
The World is depending on us at COP26 so l et us not 
disappoint. I implore us all to solemnly pledge to save 
ourselves from extinction.  
As I close I am obligated to remind us all that the 
environment and Planet Earth need champions. I am 
committed to be one and so is my country St Kitts and 
Nevis. I leave you with this question, Are you prepared to 
be one?  