I am honored to join you at this critical event, COP27, the most prominent world stage for Climate Action. Mr. President, St. Kitts and Nevis lends its voice to the plight of Small Island Developing States to support transparent, robust, actionable pathways to address climate change impacts on lives and livelihoods.
We have arrived here equipped with climate science that has never been clearer. To use a phrase coined by the ICDF, Taiwan, “Science enables action,” which informs each appropriate and practical step required to address our climate vulnerabilities. There are countries that do not have the financial resources and sufficient human capital resources to respond to or even become fully conscious of the potential ravaging effects of climate change. Mr. President, no region of the world can escape the climate change experience.
But, what we do know and experience are the devastating climate impacts of hurricanes, floods, droughts and their high cost. Our survival is severely threatened, particularly as SIDS. In my country, climatic events disrupt the livelihoods of families whose incomes depend on tourism and agriculture. In many cases, it is a single mother, a taxi driver, a farmer, who due to flooding and a prolonged drought period. We face a vicious cycle of climate hazards, loss of lives, homes, income sources, scarcity of food and water, problems
with health and wellness, higher cost of living, and the disruption of families. The glaring fragility of our SMALL State is magnified. The severity of LOSS and DAMAGE is traumatic.
What, then, is the game changer? There is no action without addressing climate justice which embraces climate finance, a perennial challenge for sSIDS. We must start by acknowleding the vast difference in the economies of scale and fiscal inability to respond to such climate events as well as the problems of classificationas a middle income country, based solely on GDP.
In St. Kitts-Nevis, we have embarked on a journey of green possibilities. Our goal is to become a model sustainable Island state. Our energies are currently focused on unearthing geothermal potential. Our 39 year old friendship with the Republic of China, Taiwan supported our renewable enery efforts. Together have produced a 2.5 mega watts of renewable energy to our citizens. Taiwan has partnered with many countries to reduce emissions. They are world leaders in renewable energy practices. COP27 is one of
action and implementation and has been branded, “Together for implementation”. Mr. President, St. Kitts-Nevis highly recommends the Republic of China, Taiwan as Observers. Your serious consideration will be highly appreciated. We need to join hands across the world.
In particular, we have a St. Kitts-Nevis invitation to sing One Song. This is a song by one of our renowned calypsonians who happens to be our Minister of Energy.
Are we blindly waiting for 2030……We shall sing ONE SONG…..
In the fight for climate action, climate justice and climate finance.
Thank you for your kind attention.