 I would like to begin by thanking the Republic of Poland for its generous 
hospitality and for hosting COP24 so efficiently and effectively . 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take thi s opportunity to reconfirm 
the Kingdom’s commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and 
to the mutual objectives we collectively set for ourselves in 2015. 
 
The Paris Agreement was, of course, the culmination of many COP meetings 
held over many years, and is the result of candid and constructive 
discussions and negotiations. It involved compromises and tradeoffs from 
all sides, and we believe it strikes a reasonable and responsible balance of 
interests among all of the participating nations , that best addresses the 
climate challenge while still protecting global economic growth, especially 
in developing nations .  
 
The basis of the Agreement was an intent to strengthen global action on 
climate change without sacrificing sustainable development and poverty 
eradication. That was to be achieved through a focus on reducing emissions 
rather than banning or restricting energy sources, such as fossil fuels; 
common but differentiated responsibilities based on each nation’s resp ective 
capabilities; and avoiding a one -size-fits-all, top -down framework based on 
each country’s unique context . We also agreed that developed economies 
would take the lead and that developing nations were not to be 
overburdened ; that actions would be ta ken to address all economic sectors, 
not just the energy industry .   
 
However, what we have witnessed since then is, unfortunately, a sharp 
deviation from the provisions agreed in Paris. Indeed, we are seeing an 
undue emphasis on energy and particularly oil, with efforts to impose 
excessive and unrealistic taxes on hydrocarbon fuels ; a transfer of the 
financial burden to developing countries, many of which still suffer from 
energy poverty; and reluctance in operationalizing the agreed upon 
provisions. That includes the mitigation co -benefits resulting from 
adaptation actions and economic and diversification plans, as well as 
response measures. 
 
Such misguided efforts ignore the social and economic consequences of 
tackling environmental issues , and as a resul t we are seeing social unrest, 
rising unemployment, violent protests , and slowing economic growth in both 
developed and developing nations around the globe . Frankly speaking, we 
are reaping the bitter harvest of these ill -advised actions —all of which fly in 
the face of the consensus we reached in 2015 . 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
To fully deliver on the Paris Agreement, we must first accept that the shift to 
low-emission economies will take time.  We must make ample and reliable 
energy supplies avai lable for the long transition in order to ensure an orderly 
change. The consequences of not doing so would make an already fragile 
situation worse. So, investments must also be channeled into improving the 
performance of conventional energy as well as ac celerating the uptake of 
renewable energy as it becomes feasible . To meet both its environmental   
 targets and its development goals, the world will require investment in all 
energy sources, and that means not discouraging or curtail ing needed 
investments in proven energy sources. 
 
Furthermore, n o pragmatic and impartial discussion about climate change 
can take place without reference to clean energy technologies, including 
CCUS technology. By lightening the environmental footprint of 
conventi onal fuels—which continue to drive global economic development 
and social prosperity —CCUS represents a necessary component in meeting 
our climate change objectives while making prudent use of the earth’s fossil 
fuel endowment and sustaining economic growth and prosperity . 
 
For its part , the Kingdom is putting its resources behind these principles. 
We fully support investment in renewables and alternatives , and ha ve 
embarked on the implementation process for generating a greater share of 
our energy from gas, solar, wind and nuclear sources.  At the same time, 
Saudi Arabia is investing heavily in new energy and efficiency technolog ies, 
and encouraging international collaboration to find both technological and 
policy solutions to the challenges of global wa rming.  
 
For example , I would like to announce today that the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia has joined the World Bank ’s “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” 
initiative , building on the Kingdom’s nearly 40 years of global leadership in 
this vital area.  The result of our efforts to -date can be seen in Saudi Arabia’s 
upstream carbon intensity of oil production and gas flaring , which is the 
lowest in the world amongst major producers . 
   
 Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
Today we find ourselves at a crossroads . Let us collectively choose the path 
of delivering on our goals in line with the needs and capabilities of local 
communities , investing in the technologies that are best able to realize our 
shared objectives , and continuing to address key developmental 
challenges —especially in emerging nations – while concurrently 
emphasizing pragmatic climate management . In other words, let us return to 
the spirit and strategies that are the firm foundation of the Paris Agreement.  
 
Thank you.  