
1 I congratulate you on your election as President of COP -23/ CMP -13/ 
CMA1.2 . As a fellow member of AOSIS, we are proud to have Fiji at the helm 
at this critical time. We would like to thank Morocco for their very able 
stewardship this past year. We also express our appreciation to the 
Government of Germany for hosting us and making the first “Island COP” a 
reality . 
 
2 Mdm Executive Secretary, we would also like to thank you and the 
Secretariat team for your tireless work. 
 
Mr President, 
 
3 The world has seen multiple record s. 2016 was the warmest year on 
record, and the third consecutive year that record temperature s have been set. 
Sixteen of the 17 warmest years on record have occurred since 2001 . This year 
has brought little relief with the severe drought in Africa, torrential floods in 
South Asia, hurricanes and cyclones that pound ed the Caribbean, Northeast 
Asia, the Pacific and even North America. Our h earts go out to the famili es 
affected and we hope that these area s will return to normalcy soon . The global 
community needs to work together, urgently and resolutely to stem the warming 
trend.  
 
4 The Paris Agreement set s a clear goal to bring th e world towards climate 
safety. We have to stay within the 2°C/1.5°C global warming limits and achieve 
net zero emissions in th e second half of this century. We are heartened by the 
resolute global support for the Paris Agreeme nt, despite various challenges. 
Close to 170 Parties have ra tified and the numbers are still rising – showing the 
continued strong global support for the Paris Agreement . 

5 Last year, we 
set ourselves a deadline to complete the Paris Agreement 
Work Programme by the resumed session of the CMA -1 in Katowice in 
December 2018. With just over a year remaining, we must stay focused to 
complete this complex task . 
 
6 First, it is crucial that Parties start implementing their Nationally 
Determined Contributions (NDCs) as soon as possible , and to progressively 
improve their transparency and ambition . We have to move expeditiously to 
finalis e the modalities, procedures and guidelines (MPGs) necessary to guide 
the implementation of the NDCs. Provision s can be made to revisit and improve 
the MPGs over time.  
 
7 Second , we should be flexible and creative in capturing progress . Each 
negotiating track w ill have its varying com plexities and dynamics . The goal 
would be to capture progress in a way that can deepen understanding of one 
another’s positions and clearly articulate options which would move us closer 
to an outcome . 
 
8 Third , we look to the Fijian COP / CMP/ CMA Presidency, APA Co -Chairs 
and Chairs of SBI and SBSTA to ensure an open , inclusive, transparent, and 
coordinated process , so that adequate and balanced progress is made on all 
tracks in the lead -up to Katowice . 
 
9 The 2018 Facilitative Dialogue is a key weigh -station on the road to 
implementing our NDCs post-2020 . We thank the Fijian and Moroccan 
Presidencies for their tireless efforts in consulting Parties regarding the 
modalities. We fully support the vision put forward by the Presidency . We are 
confide nt that the Pacific’s “Talanoa” dialogue process will inspire our 
discussions towards greater ambition for global climate action and 
collaborations between all stakeholders.  
 
10 As a small island city -state vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, 
Singapore is committed to the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
Since our early years of nation building, Singapore has placed considerable 
emphasis on sustainable dev elopment . Today, w e are ranked the most 
sustainable city in Asia, and second in the world, according to the Sustainable Cities Index 2016 
Even so, we want to do more to instil awareness of climate 
change amongst our citizens and inspire them to act in partnership. I am happy 
to announce that Singapore will designate 2018 as the Year of Climate Action. 
 
11 This will complement the steps Singapore is taking to build resilience 
against climate change.  The rate of warming over Singapore from 1951 to 2012 
was 0.26°C per decade, more than double the global average over the same 
period (0.12°C). Our daily mean temperature is projected to rise by up to 4.6°C 
towards the end of the century, and our mean sea level is estimated to rise by 
up to about 1.0 metre by 2100. We have developed a resilience framework to 
guide our adaptation efforts - protecting our buildings, coasts, infrastructure and 
public health, as well as diversifying our water supply and enhanci ng food 
security. 
 
12 Under the Paris Agreement, Singapore has committed to reduce our 
emissions intensity by 36% from 2005 levels by 2030, and to stabilise our 
emissions with the aim of peaking around then. Improving energy and carbon 
efficiency continue t o be Singapore’s key strategy to reduc e emissions across 
all sectors. This year, we introduced several enhancements to the Energy 
Conservation Act, which mandates energy efficiency requirements and energy 
management practices from 2018. They include streng thening the 
measurement and reporting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions, 
requiring companies to undertake regular energy efficiency opportunity 
assessments , and introducing minimum energy performance standards for 
common industrial equipment and sy stems. 
 
13 Earlier this year, w e announced our plans to introduce a carbon tax from 
2019 . A carbon tax will send an economy -wide price signal to incentivise 
emissions reduction s and adoption of low -carbon technologies . This will 
generate domestic resources, complement the other mitigation measures in 
Singapore’s Climate Action Plan , and support domestic measures to reduce 
emissions and meet our pledge . 
 
14 Given our unique challenges as a small island nation, innovation will be 
key for Singapore to continue to develop sustainably. We have developed the 
                   
15 The scale of solar energy deployment in Singapore is limited by space 
constraints and issues with intermittenc y. But we are not easily deterred . 
Singapore is pushing ahead to increase our solar PV deployment to 350 MWp 
by 2020, and further to 1GWp beyond 2020. Last year, we launched one of the 
world’s largest floating solar panel test -bed on one of our reservoirs . Singapore 
is now conducting engineering and environmental studies into the deployment 
of floating solar sys tems to be extended to other reservoirs . Our reservoirs will 
serve not only as a key source of our drinking water, but also contribute to clean 
energy as well. 
 
16 We are making efforts in other sectors as well. Global forecasts show 
that electric cars could reach cost parity with internal combustion engine 
vehicles in the next decade . In a month’s time, Singapore’s first electric -vehicle 
car sharing programme will be rolled out . We will progressively deploy 1,000 
electric cars and 2,000 charging points island -wide by 2020. This July, the 
Building and Construction Authority (BCA) launched a new research 
collaboration to transform BCA’s Zero Energy Building into a positive energy 
building which w ill serve as a unique living laboratory for smart building 
technologies, or an “Office of the Future”. These efforts can serve as references 
for many other cities, particularly those in the tropics , to adopt similar 
technologies. 
 
17 Singapore collaborates actively with other international partners to 
exchange these experiences and best practices on climate change and green 
growth. Under the Singapore Cooperation Programme (SCP) , more than 112 
000 officials from fellow developing countries have undergone training in key 
areas such as sustainable development, urban planning , water and transport 
management . Singapore also joined the NDC Partnership this June . Going 
forward, we will work with others in the partnership to organise training 
programmes to promote regional exchanges of best practices on the design 
and implementation of NDCs. We are also pleased to announce that Singapore 
will join the Ministerial Declaration on Carbon Markets. International market 
mechanisms will play an important role in facilitating enhanced delivery of 
mitigation contributions under the Paris Agreement.

18 Singapore is assuming the ASEAN Chairmanship in 2018. We will work 
with fellow ASEAN members and our Dialogue Partners to advance the ASEAN 
Plan of Action for Energy Cooperation 2016 -2025, which among other 
objectives, seeks to reduce energy intensity in the ASEAN region by 20% from 
2005 levels by 2020, and to increase the component of renewable energy in the 
ASEAN energy mix to 23% by 2 025. As Chair of the ASEAN Regional Energy 
Policy and Planning Sub -Sector Network, and the Chair of the ASEAN Working 
Group on Climate Change , we will continue to work with fellow ASEAN 
members and international partners to expand capacity building progra mmes 
and technical exchanges to enhance and drive the respective work programmes 
under these platforms. 
 
19 Singapore is also pleased to host the World Meteorological 
Organisation’s (WMO) Regional Office for Asia and the South -West Pacific. It 
will bring WMO closer to the 58 states and territories in the two regions, enhance 
cooperation among national meteorological and hydrological services . This will 
help WMO better implement its capacity development programmes, particularly 
those that focus on less developed countries and small island states. 
 
20 Mr President, I conclude with Singapore’s commitment and support for 
climate action, a successful conclusion to this week’s very important work and 
to the work programm e leading to Katowic e next year . To quote an African 
proverb, “If you want to go fast, go alone. But if you want to go far, go together.” 
We can be true to the Talanoa spirit , have frank discussion, and work towards 
the sustained and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement – that we 
may go both fast and far together . 
 
Thank you Mr President. 
