It is indeed a great pleasure and a privilege to deliver my 
statement at this august forum. Sri Lanka wishes to covey 
its appreciation to the Government and people of Republic 
of Poland for hostin g this important conference in an 
excellent manner in this beautiful city of Katowice and warm 
hospitality extended to us. Let me also extend our thanks 
and gratitude to Fiji for a successful presidency of COP23.   
 I am delighted to say that with the exemp lary guidance and 
leadership provided by the President of Sri Lanka who is 
also the Minister in -charge of the Environment, we are 
marching towards achieving our commitments under the 
Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals. 
Being a tropical island which is highly susceptible to the 
adverse impacts of climate change, Sri Lanka has been 
ranked as one of the most vulnerable countries in the Global 
Climate Risk Index.  
Sri Lanka’s dry zone covers 70% of its land area and is the 
home for nearly a third of its population who depends on 
agriculture for their livelihood. The dry zone receives less 
than 1,500 millimeters of rainfall per year with prolong 
droughts as a common phenomenon. Adverse impacts of 
climate change threaten the w ellbeing of people, 
ecosystems and key economic sectors such as agriculture, 
forestry, biodiversity, marine and fisheries, coastal and 
tourism leading to severe drawback in socio -economic 
development . As an agricultur e-based country, Sri Lanka 
experiences many hardships due to shifts in seasonal 
 rainfall patterns and prolonged droughts resulting in 
changing the patterns of life including internal migration.  
 
It is observed that during the recent past, the people living 
in dry zone areas who rely on ground water are particularly 
susceptible to Chronic kidney diseases mainly due to 
consumption of contaminated water. This situation has 
created an additional burden on health services.  
 
Many disasters that Sri Lanka is facing particularly after 
2015 such as prolonged droughts, flash floods and 
landslides have affected over 1.6 million families resulting 
in loss and damage to lives, livelihoods, and property. The 
total expenditure incurre d on disaster relief amounted to 
USD12,590,860 & USD51,689,850 in 2016 & 2017 
respectively.  
 
Sri Lanka has taken several climate smart initiatives for 
policy formulation and implementation through mitigation 
and adaptation strategies and actions. I am p leased to state 
 that country has already implemented multipurpose water 
resource management projects to address adverse impacts 
of climate change for the benefit of the communities in dry 
zone area. 
 
Commissioning of Moragahakanda and Kaluganga 
multipurpo se water resources projects can be highlighted 
as one of the largest recent green investment introduced in 
Sri Lanka to combat the adverse effects of climate change 
by providing required water for drinking and agriculture for 
the dry zone communities. Thes e twin reservoirs with the 
capacity of 817 Million Cubic Meters boost the economy 
through irrigating additional 84,000 hectares of farmlands in 
Northern, Central and Eastern Provinces with generation of 
25 MW hydro -power. 
 
Sri Lanka has embarked on ambitio us projects to increase 
the forest cover from 29% to 32% by 2030 and also pledged 
to be the champion of the action group for mangrove 
restoration under the Commonwealth Blue Charter. 
 At present, several feasibility studies are being carried out 
to explore the possibility of trans -basin transfer of surplus 
water from the wet zone to the dry zone region, building or 
upgrading more than 260 km of canals, large scale water 
storing reservoirs, and other irrigation infrastructure to 
deliver wa ter to the areas su ffering from water scarcity and 
drought for agriculture, as well as safe drinking water to the 
people. 
 
The country focuses on its vulnerable communities in 
implementing the nationally determined contributions of 
different sectors, as well as the implementation of the 
country’s national adaptation plan. From strengthening the 
resilience of smallholder farmer s in the dry zone, building 
resilience in livelihoods among the impacted communities, 
to engag e youth of the country in the climate decision 
making processes, Sri Lanka is committed to inclusive and 
participatory climate actions to ensure that concrete actions 
are taken to address the vulnerabilities to climate change. 
 
 We are aware that the critica l Ecosystem services such as; 
production of Oxygen, sequestering of Carbon, water 
cycling and ambient cooling are carried out by the 
photosynthetic component of biomass. This is being lost at 
an exponential rate, due to the fact that these Ecosystem 
Servic es have not been valued, nor economically 
recognized. Hence, we would request through you the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to 
examine the value of photosynthetic biomass. 
 
Mr. President, Sri Lanka further wishes to stress the need 
for a ll financial flows provided and mobilized taking into 
account the needs and priorities of developing country 
parties. In the face of increasing number and intensity of 
extreme weather events, there is an urgent need for 
effective action on the provision of technical and financial 
resources, including the technology development, transfer 
and capacity building of developing countries in order to 
minimize the losses and damages. It is also important that 
capacity building should be based on national needs 
 ensu ring the country -ownership through the process of 
participatory approach. 
 
Mr. President, we wish to bring to your attention that 
financial support mechanisms established under the 
UNFCCC seem experiencing some difficulties when 
processing required fundin g for climate projects. For 
example, the G reen Climate Fund which is particularly 
established to support developing countries for climate 
adaptation and mitigation has not received the funding from 
some developed countries as pledged. As a result, there is 
a long delay in processing pipeline projects. Further, 
internal administrative issues of funding agencies hamper 
the timely implementation of projects to meet the respective 
national commitments. 
 
Sri Lanka recognizes the importance of the role of COP, 
and highlights the need to take effective and concrete steps 
for finalizing the follow up actions of the Paris Agreement. 
With the increasing trends of climate risks, we are not in a  
 position to further delay our commitments for climate 
actions. The develo ping countries especially in the tropics 
are highly vulnerable to these increased risks, and needs 
efficient and effective means of implementation to enable 
them to make their contributions under the Paris 
Agreement, as well as to ensure that efforts are 
sustainable. 
 
Mr. President, we recall the need for urgency, 
inclusiveness, gender sensitive and participatory climate 
action, which extends to the inclusion and participation of 
vulnerable communities, and multiple stakeholders 
including civil society, pr ivate sector, youth, women, 
academia and strengthening the public participation at all 
levels. 
 
Finally, Sri Lanka assures our continued commitment to the 
success of convention. We wish to reiterate our full 
confidence and unreserved support to the Chairs, Co-
 Chairs and Co -facilitators of various subsidiary and 
constituted bodies of the UNFCCC. 
 
Once again, I take this opportunity to convey our gratitude 
for the great hospitality extended by the Government of 
Republic Poland. 
 
Wish you all the best. 
I thank you, Mr. President 