
Once again, the leaders of the world have gathered her e at the 24th 
Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change , to determine the plight of the 
particularly vulnerable, including the Small Island Developing State of 
Saint Lucia.  COP24 will be the most important session in international 
climate change negotiations since the adoption of the Paris 
Agreement in 2015 . This COP needs to adopt a robust set of rules 
under the Paris Agreement Work Programme that will enable all 
Parties to operationalise and fully implement the Paris Agreement.  
 
As significant , if not more important for COP24 , is shining the light on 
the need for much greater mitigation ambition - through the outcome 
of the Talanoa Dialogue and , indeed, all our work in Katowice . The 
urgency of this is starkly presented in the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change Special Report o n Global Warming of 1.5 °C, prepared 
in response to a direct request from this prestigious UNFCCC body . 
This game -changing report by renowned scientists from around the 
world, in both developed and developing countries , is the result of the 
 
 assessment of over 6 ,000 scientific publications and provides strong , 
legitimate, peer reviewed scientific support for the disproportionate 
risks facing small islands at a temperature rise of 1.5°C.  We are clearly 
very far from reaching this 1.5°C goal. Current mitigation ambition , as 
evidenced by Nationally D etermined Contributions (NDCs) submitted 
under the Paris Agreement , cumulatively track s toward 3 -4°C of 
warming by 2100 , with the potential for further warming thereafter. 
Indeed, w e are already at 1°C of warming and may reach 1.5°C as early 
as 2030 , if emissions continue at current rates . Pay attention, policy 
makers and world leaders! The year 2030 is a mere 12 years away. We 
do not have the luxury of time. The NDCs we submit in 2020 must 
show a step change in our ambition to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and limit the temperature rise to 1.5°C .  
 
The repercussions of the impacts we will suffer in the absence of 
ambitious action are not premised on some esoteric concept lodged 
in the minds of mad scientists and tree-hugging conservationists ! Oh 
no! We are already observing and experienci ng the impacts of climate 
change the world over and no one knows this better than small island 
states , such as, among others, Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, Haiti 
and Saint Lucia. 
 
News of Greta Thunberg, a 15-year -old Swedish student , who single -
handedly started a strike demanding that politicians in her country act 
on climate change , has spread around the world . The actions of one 
so young, are highly commendable, and I wish to highlight the 
following from her message to delegates here at COP 24 in Polan d. 
She said, and I quote: “The climate crisis has already been solved . We 
  already have all the facts and solutions. Why should I be studying for 
a future that soon may be no more , when no one is doing anything to 
save that future? What’s the point of learning facts when the most 
important facts clearly mean nothing to our society? End of quote. 
 
How apt is Greta’s message, at a point in these negotiations, where it 
appears that there are deliberate attempts to deny the science and 
play the role of the proverbial ostrich, sticking our heads in the sand. 
 
Greta ’s indictment of our leadership in tackling climate change is 
stark , and I quote: “ We have not come here to beg the world leaders 
to care for our future. They have ignored us i n the past and they will 
ignore us again”. End of quote. However, a s Minister with 
responsibility for education and climate change in my country, I 
harbour hope and faith in humanity , and I feel that it is my innate duty 
to implore you to make it a priority to complete the work that the 
world’s children demand of us. 
 
As leaders, we must find the resolve, political will and farsightedness 
to do what is right. As policy makers, business persons, managers, 
consumers, individuals, we must ch ange the way we think, move 
around, design and build, earn and consume, if we are serious about 
making a difference.  
 
A concerted effort requires inclusive multilateralism at its best . 
Climate change is no respecter of race, religion, geography, gender, 
political status or economic circumstance. We are all affected by the 
  vagaries of climate change. Therefore, we need all stakeholders to join 
in the efforts to stem climate change and to build resilience. 
Indigenous communities; NGOs; women's groups; nations like Taiwan , 
yet to be recognis ed by the UN and its subsidiaries as a bona fide state, 
but having to respond to its effects, regardless ; the youth …. we need 
all hands on deck and give voice to those who are most affected. That's 
the power of inclusiveness as together we can go farther, faster . 
 
As small islands, we continue to demonstrate by example, taking 
ambitious steps towards our transition to a low carbon economy , but 
the lack of ambitious action , particularly by the world’s largest 
emitters, is negatively impacting our destiny . A more ambitious 
response is urgently required by world leaders and the science clearly 
demonstrates this.  
 
Greta says that the world’s leaders are behaving like children. I call on 
you to help show her and her peers that we have the ability to behave 
like the responsible adult s that we profess to be . We must use the 
opportunity, now, to deliver a strong Paris Agreement rule -set and an 
unequivocal message on ambitio n. This message needs to be include d 
in a COP decision that recognises the Talanoa Dialogue outcome and 
welcomes the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 °C. 
 
Let us also put into effect our collective responsibility to invest in 
averting global climate disaster , including by delivering on the 
financial commitments made in Paris to support the particularly 
vulnerable.  
 
 We can transform our world to a better and safer place for the 
children of Saint Lucia, the children of all the nations of the world, so 
that in a few years, when Greta is interviewed again, she will be able 
to say that we backed our talk with action. I thank you. 