First and foremost I warmly congratulate His Highness Sheikh
Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan for his inspiring leadership and
generosity in contributing 100 million dollars to the loss and
damage fund for those who are at the forefront of the impact of
climate change. This is a testament that the UAE is the home
of Human Fraternity.
We welcome the historic decision just taken to operationalise
the loss and damage fund, and appreciate the financial pledges
that have already been made. We trust that these will be new
and additional to existing climate finance and other

development assistance. Of course, a vast gap still remains,
and it is our people that will continue to shoulder the greatest
costs of climate change.
We urge the developed country parties to provide sustainable
financial inputs to this fund. This fund must be accountable to
the COP and CMA with a credible board and independent
secretariat.
I want to commend and voice my appreciation for the technical
team of my country, Timor-Leste, under the leadership of
Ambassador Adão Barbosa as one of the Transitional
Committee members to the funding arrangements and fund for
addressing loss and damage and tirelessly working towards the
realization of this fund in the interest of the most vulnerable
countries.
The latest IPCC report echoes a sobering reality:
human-induced greenhouse gas emissions have driven global
warming by 1.1°C since 1850.
I urge WHO to declare a Public Health Emergency of
International Concern, the highest level of emergency that can
be declared by WHO.

Failure to act NOW to curtail greenhouse emissions will
unleash extreme events amplifying many times over the
specter of future losses and damages.
LDCs and SIDS are the most affected due to limited financial,
technological and human capacity to adapt to the impacts of
climate change even though we are minute CO2 emitters.
Timor-Leste experiences multiple climate change impacts,
floods, droughts, landslides, and sea level rise. This leads to
decrease in agriculture output, increase food insecurity, water
shortage, destruction of infrastructure, loss of human life,
displacement, limited financial and technological capacity to
quickly recover and rebuild loss and damage.
Developed countries parties must show the lead in reducing
their greenhouse gas emissions and other major emitting
countries to do so, in order to achieve net-zero emission by
2050.
Developed country parties must lead in providing finance,
technology and capacity building support for developing
countries enabling adaptation and mitigation actions.
We need to define climate finance as new and additional to a
revised, increased ODA to at least 0,7% of GDP, without
cumbersome inflated bureaucracy procedures.
In addition, there has to be a global debt right off for LDCs,
SIDS and in particular the g7+ Fragile States.
Can we try to be a little honest and recognise that economic
recovery from Covid-19 pandemic, Ukraine war, and climate
catastrophes, while saddled with massive debts caused by
sharks loans from multilateral lending institutions and
commercial banks, is an impossibility?
We call for an urgent energy transition from fossil fuel-based to
renewable energy in the most emitting countries in order to
enable us to achieve net-zero emission by 2050.
In addition, we must provide political guidance to the existing
negotiation on a new collective quantified goal in order to define
a new financial contribution from the developed country parties
to developing countries with a quantum of USD 200 billion
annually by 2025 to 2030 focussed on adaptation, mitigation
and loss and damage.
Timor-Leste’s oceans boast exceptional biodiversity, extensive
fisheries and the healthiest coral reefs in the region.
Twenty-four species of whales and dolphins frequent our
waters, which is among the highest recorded number of
cetaceans anywhere in the world. Our waters contain the
largest creature ever to have lived on planet Earth - the mighty
blue whale.
However, our nation’s marine life is being plundered by illegal
fishing and faces a very grave threat from plastic pollution. We
have taken measures to strengthen legislation to protect our
marine biodiversity.
We echo the statement of the Kunming-Montreal Global
Biodiversity Framework Target 3, to conserve at least 30% of
the planet by the year 2030 by taking urgent and concrete
action to halt and reverse biodiversity loss on our land and in
our sea.
We, the President and the Government, led by our Founding
Father Prime Minister Xanana Gusmão, are determined to
protect our Exclusive Economic Zones; against predatory
commercial activities the Northern EEZ will be "No Take
Zones" by 2025.
Traditional fishing activities by coastal communities will be
adequately supported to improve their livelihood.
We have formulated a National Adaptation Plan (NAP),
National Adaptation Program of Actions (NAPAs) and revised
the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDCs) as required by
the UNFCCC, with various adaptation priorities for the short,
medium and long term actions, including agriculture and food
security, fresh water, infrastructure, and health.
In this regard, we call on developed country parties to provide
financial support for the full implementation of our key
adaptation priorities under the NAP in order to increase our
resilience.
On mitigation, Timor-Leste is fully engaged to have a low
carbon development path with priorities given to renewable
energy and reforestation.
In fact, the government has been implementing renewable
energy technologies including solar power for rural
communities living away from the national electricity line.
We have conserved our native vegetation in our national parks,
such as the Nino Konis Santana National Park. We are
expanding reforestation activities by providing economic
incentives to the rural communities.
Some National NGOs are at the forefront of our strategy to
repair the damages inflicted on Mother Earth.
NGO PERMATIL has been actively undertaking water source
conservation and recovery activities rehabilitating natural dams
in upper areas for increasing rainwater infiltration into the soil.
NGOs - "WITH ONE SEED" and TIMOR CARBON OFFSET
FOUNDATION - are expanding successful tree planting
programs across the country.
Carbon credit certificates sold in the carbon credit market bring
significant return for participating communities.
We will do much more if we receive adequate support free of
stifling bureaucracy.
End
