First of all, allow me to express gratitude to the Leadership and Government of the United Arab Emirates for their warm hospitality and excellent conditions for our productive work.
Turkmenistan considers its participation in this conference as a milestone in advancing its international strategy on climate change issues. Important part of this strategy is to ensure steadiness and consistency of implementing initiatives put forward by our country since the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), other major forums and Turkmenistan's ongoing efforts.
The National Climate Change Strategy adopted in 2012 served as starting point for Turkmenistan's full engagement in the global climate agenda.
Our country's joining the Paris Agreement became the next logical step. In 2019, a revised version of the National Climate Change Strategy was approved.

This inclusive document contains a comprehensive set of measures for adapting almost all key sectors of economy and social sphere to the new conditions. Special attention is given to the fuel and energy complex, in which significant efforts are being made to reduce emissions by increasing utilization of associated petroleum gas and reducing losses of natural gas during transportation.
As a responsible state Turkmenistan recognizes the need to continue targeted efforts at both international and national levels to ensure further progress in combating climate change and its results. One of its important aspects - is our country's contribution to international efforts to reduce methane emissions.
At the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was held in Glasgow, Turkmenistan expressed support for the new initiative on Global Methane Pledge and expressed its interest in detailed studying this document and participating in its implementation.
In line with the recommendations of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and with active support of the United Nations Development Program, in May 2022 our country prepared and approved Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) of Turkmenistan to the Paris Agreement on climate. This strategic document assumes 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 compare to 2010 levels.

Today, from the high rostrum, Turkmenistan officially declares on its joining the Global Methane Pledge. At the same time Turkmenistan will continue its current cooperation with international organizations and partner countries within existing projects and programs aimed at practical implementation of commitments rising from the Global Methane Pledge.
In the context of broad international cooperation in addressing climate issues in Central Asia, which were promoted by our country for many years, it is essential to highlight the importance of Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Turkmenistan and United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) which was signed on November 13 this year, aiming to develop regional programs for transferring climate technologies to Turkmenistan and Central Asian states.
We consider this document as a first step and significant legal basis for considering the establishment of UN Regional Centre for Climate Technology for Central Asia in Turkmenistan.
Thus, Turkmenistan’s initiative to create this specialized UN Centre for a region with population of almost 80 million, unique natural resources and biodiversity and, at the same time, located in a zone of serious environmental risks, is now gaining real prospects.

Fully committed to continue multilateral cooperation within the global climate initiatives, Turkmenistan welcomes proposed Declaration on Climate and Health and considers it important to support this Declaration to confirm our collective determination and unity on healthcare issues in the implementation of Paris Agreement.
Recognizing exceptional significance of the impact of climate change in ensuring global food security, Turkmenistan fully supports Emirates Declaration on sustainable agriculture, resilient food systems, and climate action.
Recognizing importance of coordination between national and sub-national governments to combat climate change, Turkmenistan is ready to support Initiative to create the COP-28 Coalition for High Ambition Multi-Level Partnerships in the combating climate change.
We are ready to further strengthen cooperation at regional and global levels in the fields of agriculture, ecology, energy, finance and health with all interested parties to achieve the goals of Emirates Declaration, taking into account national interests of Turkmenistan.
Thank you for your attention, and wish all participants of the conference success in their activities.