I would like to express my heartfelt regards to you all.

I also would like to extend my congratulations to the Polish
Government for the efforts exerted to host the 24° Conference
of the Parties.

In addition, I would like to extend my best wishes for a successful
term of Presidency.

Distinguished participants,

Environment faced a substantial man-made destruction in the
aftermath of the Industrial Revolution. Excessive consumption in
particular does a significant damage to environment, disrupting
the ecosystem.

In association with global warming, climate change remains as a
grave threat to the future of our globe.

Climate change poses a threat to the future of not only our globe
but also our children.

The Global Warming of 1.5°C report of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change points to the sense of urgency required
to fight against climate change.

Average temperatures across the globe set a new record year by
year.

Disasters such as floods, hails, storms, drought and long-term
forest fires are more and more common now.

We face extreme weather conditions both in Turkey and around the world

For instance, a 20-minute hailstorm in the city of Istanbul back in
2017 caused USD 225 million worth of damage.

Distinguished Chair and Esteemed Participants,
It is inevitable to engage in global cooperation in fight against the
climate change.

We are members of a civilization that considers environment
something entrusted by the Almighty Allah just like our lives, and
preaches handing it down to the next generations in the best way
possible.

With this being in mind, the Turkish Government has forged a
roadmap to combat the global climate change in an attempt to
offer inputs to the efforts.

As a rapidly-growing economy, Turkey aspires to achieve a 21
reduction in greenhouse emissions by 2030.

We intend to exponentially boost our efforts for climate change
within the boundaries of our capabilities and international
assistance that we will harness.

In addition, we make use of new and clean technologies, and rely
more and more on renewable energy sources.

The installed capacity of renewable energy sources has hit 45
percent in Turkey.

The Renewable Energy Zones, which we have established,
allow for favorable circumstances for large-scale investments.
We have also taken major steps in energy efficiency. We came
up with the Energy Efficiency Action Plan. Over the past fifteen
years, we have saved 41.5 million tonnes of oil equivalent.
Additionally, Turkey ranks among top 10 OECD countries in
indirect taxes imposed on fossil fuels. We contribute to the
climate sustainability in this respect.

Transportation investments enable us to save time, approximate
approximate distances and reduce emissions. 

In our rapidly-industrializing country, we strive to make sure 
that industrial businesses are built on green production, source
and energy efficiency.
We monitor, report and confirm more than half of the greenhouse
gas emissions by industrial businesses.

As forests serve as a major sink, we aspire to make sure that our
forests cover 30% of the entire land by 2023.

We also kicked off the Zero Waste Project in 2017 in an effort
to hand down a clean and developed country and a habitable
world to the next generations.

The project is run under the auspices of the First Lady Emine
ERDOGAN.

We aim at completing the establishment of the Zero Waste
System on the national level by 2023.

Once we achieve this goal, the project is poised to save USD 4
billion a year, offering employment for 100.000 people.

The main purpose of the projects I have just articulated is the
creation of living environments that are environmentally friendly
and resistant to climate change.

Distinguished Chair and Esteemed Participants,

The success in fight against the climate change relies on the
inclusion of all segments of the society into such efforts.

From this perspective, we promote local authorities, non-
governmental organizations and universities.

On the other hand, the adaptation to climate change is of
particular importance for Turkey as one of the countries that is
going to be most affected by climate change given the fact that
she is located in the Mediterranean Basin.

The global climate change has led to more and more disasters
such as flood and landslide particularly in the Black Sea Region
on a more frequent basis, causing economic, social and
environment damage.

That is why we introduced the Black Sea Climate Change
Adaptation Strategy and the Action Plan.
We are going to disseminate such efforts across turkey.

Turkey is a rapidly burgeoning country.
Our historical responsibility for the climate change is quite
minimal as it is the case in other developing countries. 

Turkey is committed to contributing to joint efforts to combat the
climate change within the boundaries of national circumstances
and capabilities.

To begin with, we request access to international financial
resources to combat the climate change.

At this stage, our ultimate expectation is to make sure that
Turkey enjoys a fair position under the climate system, and
that a resolution is taken here in Poland to ensure that
Turkey has access to financial assistance under the Green
Climate Fund in particular.

We have shown resilience and made a compromise for the
smooth inauguration and organization of the 24‘. Conference of
the Parties.

We expect you to exert such a compromising effort.

A resolution that would meet our demands under the 24'
Conference of the Parties will lend impetus to Turkey's efforts
to become a party to the Paris Agreement.

Turkey's demands are undoubtedly fair and justified with
constructive outcomes.

Distinguished Chair and Esteemed Participants,

We expect efforts under the Paris Rulebook to be exerted in line
with common yet differentiated obligations of the countries on an
equitable basis.

In addition, I would like to thank the Fiji Government for the efforts
to forge the current version of the Talanoa Dialogue chaired by
Fiji.

We are fully confident that the Talanoa Dialogue's constructive
structure for cooperation will reverberate through the spirit and
resolutions of this conference.

Last but not least, I would like to note that we have officially 
lodged an application to host the 26th edition of the Conference
of the Parties to be held in 2020, and we expect assistance from 
you in this respect. 

As I conclude my remarks, I would like this conference to lead to
auspicious resolutions for both our countries and the whole
world.

