 
 It is such an honour to represent the United Kingdom at COP 23, and I want to thank 
the Fijian Presidency for its excellent leadership… 
 
 … and the people of Germany for their great hospitality. 
 
 As our Prime Minister highlighted in New York in September , the Paris Agreement is 
a brilliant example of effective global cooperation . Every country in the world has now 
signed the Agreement, and I am proud that the UK is part of this. 
 
 It has never been more important to accelerate our momentum. Recent extreme 
weather events have devastated the lives of many across the world. I would like to 
extend my deepest sympathy to all those affected and emphasise that we are taking 
our commitments under the Paris Agreement very seriously and we are taking action . 
 
1. Firstly, for the UK we launched a Clean Growth Strategy for the UK just last 
month – a critical set of measures to meet our domestic carbon budgets and hel p 
our global CO2 reduction process . 
 
2. I was also proud that the UK recently announced plans to phase out unabated 
coal fired electricity generation by 2025… our intent to end the sale of 
conventional petrol and diesel cars by 2040… and to establish our Green 
Finance Taskforce 
 
3. Earlier today the UK, Canada, and over twenty five other p arties committed to 
forming the Powering Past Coal Alliance - a new alliance committed to phasing 
out unabated coal from power generation . 
 
4. We have also kept our promises in supporting poorer nations to accelerate the 
transition to a more resilient and low carbon future and play our role in meeting 
our collective goal of mobilising $100bn in climate finance per year by 2020.  
 
 Last year, we showed international leadership by successfully balancing 
our climate finance ac ross mitigation and adaptation… and so far we have 
mobilised £2.2 billion public and £500 million private finance for climate 
change purposes in developing countries . This has helped over 34 million 
people deal with the impacts of climate change. 
 … and I am very proud of the over three hundred million pounds of UK 
funding announcements at this COP on protecting forests, encouraging 
private sector investment in sustainable infrastructure, and helping 
countries finance their existing emissions reduct ion plans. 
 
Plus we have recently committed to double our 2017 funding to IPCC and 
make multi -year pledges to be sure that this important institution can 
continue to play a crucial role in providing independent, rigorous and 
balances scientific information on climate change. 
 
 
 The UK also continues to be a global leader in pr otecting oceans and marine life: 
 
o We are on track to pr otect 4 million square kilometres of ocean 
across Overseas Territories by 2020. 
 
o During this COP, we have also announced that the United 
Kingdom has signed up to the “Because the Oceans” declaration 
and I encourage others who have not done so, to do the s ame. 
 
 
 We see pre -2020 action as extremely important - on Tuesday we ratified the 
Kigali amendment to the Montreal Protocol on phasing down HFCs…. 
 
…and I am pleased to say that our Foreign Secretary signed the Doha 
Amendment yesterday. 
 
 We are not resting on our laurels. In the New Year we are looking forward to 
hosting the Commonwealth summit in London which will help to provide a 
springboard for future collective action ...  
 
 We see it as crucial that over the next few years we achieve: 
 
… Agreement on the rules that underpin the Paris Agreement… 
 
… an increase in ambition as technology and innovation makes the transition a 
win win for the planet and our economy. 
 
… but of course the action that really matters is in the real world where 
businesses and organisations are taking the signals from these negotiations to 
transform our future 
 
 There is much we can – and must – achieve together. 
 
 Thank you to all parties here for working together to make COP23 a huge success .  