It gives me great pleasure to join this High Level Segment of the 26th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on behalf of the people of the Republic of Vanuatu, whom I have the privilege of representing at this COP.
May I thank the Government of the United Kingdom through the leadership of the COP Presidency for hosting COP26 Meeting in Glasgow this year despite the COVID pandemic restrictions experienced today.
Mr. President,
I stand before you today, concerned to my core about the onslaught of this climate emergency; a crisis that is devastating the nation of Vanuatu, taking with it our livelihoods, our natural resources, territorial integrity, our cultural identities, our human rights, and even our lives.
The recent IPCC Special Report has highlighted that the world is moving towards a rise in temperature of 3 degree celsius and that Vanuatu as a small island developing States, will continue to face natural disasters, sea-level rise, droughts and ocean acidification. Therefore, as a small island nation, climate change remains the greatest threat to achieving our sustainable development goals.
Even though we are not a major contributor of greenhouse gases, we are committed to working with the international community to redouble our efforts to reduce the rise in global temperatures, so that, by 2030, 100 per cent of our electricity will be generated by renewable and sustainable energy.
This effort is part of our nationally determined contributions. Implementation mechanisms of the Agreement needs to also trigger drastic and serious actions such as setting a moratorium on new coal mines and new fossil fuel extraction.
Mr President,
Vanuatu urges parties to have new and updated NDCs that represent the highest possible ambition. We would like to see the highest levels of pressure applied to parties who have not yet brought their NDCs in-line with 1.5-degree pathways. We urge parties to reach a consensus in the discussions for common time frames of the NDC.
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement (PA) is an item of great importance and my country would like to see significant progress on the finalization and the operationalization of this Article. Increasing ambition on Article 6 will support the implementation and achievement of targets specified in NDCs. Vanuatu’s NDC reflects our firm commitment, aiming to deliver the PA ambitions, despite having ambitious 2030 targets. This is achievable only through technical and financial support. Vanuatu however, perceived last week’s negotiations deviate away from the Paris Agreement mandate on Article 6 matters.
Therefore, I expect you to push for rapid decarbonization by 2030, starting with the eradication of fossil fuel subsidizes and agreement on no new coal, oil or gas projects, in alignment with low emission development strategies and net zero emissions by 2050.
The climate finance mobilized to support Vanuatu’s climate adaptation, mitigation and addressing loss and damage is insufficient. I expect that you will hold Parties responsible for meeting the 100 billion USD per year commitment they made in 2009, and reaffirmed in the Paris Agreement in 2015. Beyond 2026, that baseline amount must expand considerably to meet costs that will be in the trillions.
Loss and Damage is here and now, and the UNFCCC mechanisms are not delivering. I want you to push for a fully operational Santiago Network on Loss and Damage, one that serves as a technical and financial arm for us when we need it most.
The UNFCCC Transparency Framework must be strengthened, I would like you to call for comprehensive common tabular formats and reference tables, particularly so we know that no double counting of emissions occurs, and that the amount of climate finance mobilized and delivered is unambiguous.
Adaptation is the top climate priority for Vanuatu. I request for more support to mainstream, integrate and implement National Adaptation Planning processes, and start a robust process that will capture
Vanuatu’s progress on adaptation in the Global Stocktake and as part of a new Global Adaptation Goal. Vanuatu request for stronger language on the Finance Function of the Santiago Network. We prefer language that requests potential SNLD hosts to make Submissions early next year so we can actually start responding to requests of the most vulnerable as soon as possible.
Mr President,
My country strongly believes that science must be the ultimate basis for our work and welcomes the findings of the IPCC Special Reports, specifically the special report on 1.5 Degrees, and the IPCC, Working Group 1, Sixth Assessment Report. Science confirms record rates of increasing greenhouse gas emissions, and a terrifying approach towards the 1.5 °C global heating limit. Every year, and every degree brings the Pacific Islands new levels of climate extremes and climate suffering. We need to heed the science.
Human-caused climate change is undermining Vanuatu’s right to sustainable development, and global efforts to protect planetary biodiversity and the future of our oceans. Our government is prioritizing
legal pathways to hold polluters to account, whether state parties or corporations, whether far away or in the Pacific region.
These grave climate injustices must stop by sustained, radical, and socially just cuts to emissions now, not later.
For 29 years, Vanuatu has participated in the multilateral climate negotiations with good faith, ambition and hope that nations would be able to work together to address the single greatest threat to the livelihood, security and well-being of all people on this plant.
Although our delegates do not physically attending COP this year as our health experts have decided that it is in the best interest of our nation to stay COVID free. But, even from home, we have delegates who are virtually engaging in the multilateral climate processes with the highest ambition.
Therefore, I call upon all negotiators to prioritize action over politics, resilience over economic gain, and justice over inequality.
To the world, Vanuatu will be watching and following from afar. We stand in solidarity with all of those who have suffered, like us, the excruciating pain of this climate crisis. Vanuatu will be your advocate and friend in humanity.
I thank you all!!