Your Excellency, Abdel El Fattah El Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Excellencies, Heads of State and Government
Your Excellency, Mr. Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Ladies and Gentlemen.
We meet at a time when the impact of climate change continues destroying people’s lives and livelihoods in every part of the world. It is opportune that this COP27 is being held on the African Continent. Our voice must be heard, as too, should our demands and expectations. We must unite as a Continent and speak with one voice.
There is need for concrete actions. Those mostly responsible for the climate crisis must listen and prioritize climate finance to help prevent disasters and climate victims recover. Commitments we have made and continue to make, can only make a difference when we act on them.

Mr. President, the agriculture sector which is key to Zimbabwe’s economy is facing a serious threat from climate change. My government is implementing various programmes, including extensive dam construction projects towards climate change adaptation and mitigation for sustainable food and nutrition security. Further, Zimbabwe is expanding the production and use of renewable energy.
Zimbabwe will see greenhouse gas emissions curbed to 44.7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide by 2030. My country has also integrated gender issues in the Revised Nationally Determined Contributions.
Greater progress would be made on our climate goals were it not for the albatross of illegal economic sanctions imposed on our country. We demand the immediate lifting of these unwarranted and punitive sanctions.

Zimbabwe is committed “to be a friend to all and an enemy to none”, and we are ready to play our part in addressing climate change and other challenges that face our world.
In conclusion, at this COP 27, let us from the developing world act as a countermanding bloc of victims of climate change. We need to negotiate and vote in a block, through the Group of 77 plus China. Only then are we likely to carry the day. We can and must, act now to secure a healthy planet for the present and future generations. I thank you.