 
Mr President, 
Ministers, 
Distinguished delegates, 
Ladies and gentlemen 
 
[Shifting momentum ] 
 
2014 has been a remarkable year for climate change . 
 
Under the leadership of UN Secretary -General Ban Ki -moon, the Climate Summit brought 
together hundreds of world leaders from government, business and civil society under one 
roof.  
 
Outside the conference room, m ore than 400,000 people took the street calling for climate 
action. 
 
Scientific community also raised their voice through t he recent IPCC report, which casts 
important new light on urgency of action . 
 
We need to build on this momentum and answer these calls by taking action. 
 
[Climate -smart Korea ] 
 
The Republic of Korea stand s by its voluntary target to reduce its greenhouse gas emission 
by 30 per cent from the BAU level in 2020. 
 
Earlier this year in January, we have announced a new roadmap for 2020 , presenting policy 
measures and sectoral targets to implement and strengthen our mitigation efforts . 
 
Korea will also launch a nation wide Emission Trading Scheme from the 1st of January next 
year, which will make us the first Asian country ever to take such action.  
 
It is part of our efforts to find innovative solutio ns to rethink and reengineer our economy for 
climate -smart development. 
 
 In addition, we are stepping up our efforts in climate finance for the global community, and will 
increase our contribution to the Green Climate Fund up to 100 million dollars . 
 
Looking beyond 2020, Korea will also put forward its intended nationally determined 
contribution next year , in accordance with the timeline we agreed in Warsaw. 
 
[Global agreement ] 
 
But actions by a partial number of countries will not be sufficient to address climate change , 
and coordinated international response is essenti al. 
 
This is why we need to build a meaningful, durable, and truly global agreement which will 
inspire actions on the ground. 
 
In 20 -year history of this convention, we have witnessed both achievements and challenges. 
 
It may not have been perfect, but without this international framework, we would not have 
been able to come this far. 
 
Building on the progress we have made, the focus of 2015 agreement should be on how 
to strengthen implementation of the convention , not another political statement . 
 
We need several key ingredients to deliver success in this : 
 
First, our conversation on the new agreement should leave no one behind . 
 
In Warsaw last year, we made significant headway in this direction , and agree d to come up 
with our own contributions reflecting national circumstances and capabilities.  
 
This bottom -up approach will help us broaden the base of the agreement and ensure global 
participation .  
 
Second, the agreement should be relevant to all . 
 
To accommodate a wide range of climate actions, we need a comprehensive and balanced 
approach to six main elements we have identified in Durban – mitigation, adaptation, finance, 
technology, capacity building, and transparency . 
 
We also need to provide a window of opportunity to catalyze actions by subnational and non -
state actors.  
 
Last but not least, t he agreement should also lay solid foundation for transparency and 
accountability with a clear set of rules . 
 
This is crucial to generate confidence on durability and credibility of the new system, not just 
among parties, but for the “outside world” as well.  

 
[The way forward ] 
 
Distinguished Delegates, 
Ladies and Gentlemen, 
 
We are at a crucial moment in the history of the convention, a nd the founding spirit of the 
convention is what we need towards Paris. 
 
Let us REBUILD confidence in international response to climate change ; 
RENEW our commitments to take action; and  
REVITALIZE hope for our common future.  
 
Korea stands ready and looks forward to working with all parties and relevant stakeholders for 
success in Lima and Paris. 
 
Thank you. 