Bosnia and Herzegovina is making great efforts to be an
active part of the international forces in the fight against the
disastrous consequences of climate change.

We have produced and submitted our INDC to the UNFCCC
secretariat, and in the upcoming period, hard work awaits us
on the implementation of the obligations stemming from the
INDC. We hope that, with the full support of the international
community, a manner enabling the achievment of the
common goal will be implemented.

Since we are geographically located in an area which is
particularly exposed to extreme climate change, and since we
are very vulnerable to climate change and its consequences,
we are already working on an agenda of adaptation and mitigation,
in order to turn climate challenges into climate opportunities.

In that regard, we expect further and stronger support from
the European Union, whose efforts we fully support in the
negotiation process. That is why we are ready to, through
synergetic action and in line with the objectives of
sustainable development adapted in September this year in
the UN General Assembly, adapt our economy, society and
the environment to the low-carbon development, through
which we need to elevate the contribution of the renewable
energies to the highest possible level.

Last year, we had the biggest and the most disastrous floods
in our history, which took many human lives and caused
untold damage to housing facilities and the country’s
economy.

For that reason, in cooperation with the international
community, we took decisive action on the assessment of
potential risks, and made a plan of action in order to be able
to act preventively and to avoid similar catastrophic events.

We are permanently strengthening the prevention of risks of
climate change in terms of improving the Early Warning
Sysytem, highlighting the modernisation of equipment,
training, capacity building, transfer of technology and
knowledge.

We have come to Paris convinced that, on the basis of 
compromise and consensus, a fair agreement will be reached,
which should be effective, binding to all countries, with a
clearly highlighted common and shared responsibility to
reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, but also with a
precisely defined relation between developed and less
developed countries.

For this, we have been provided with an excellent basis by
leaders of the countries of the world on the 30th of
November, encouraging negotiators to agree and determine
the final text of the Paris Agreement, the implementation of
which should be the path to a better and fairer climate
future.

Thank you

