1. The following Pacific Small Island Developing States (PSIDS) are 
represented in Lima, namely: Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, 
Kiribati, Nauru, Republic of Marshall Islands, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, 
Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Tuvalu. The PSIDS Group also aligns itself with the 
Statement delivered by the Chair of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS). 
 
2. The PSIDS Group would like to extend its deep appreciation to you, the 
people, and the Government of Peru for hosting this very important event for the 
great hospitality and support provided to our delegations. 
 
3. Recognizing that 2014 is the International Year of SIDS the PSIDS Group 
were actively involved in this year’s SIDS confere nce, as with the Rio, Barbados, 
Johannesburg, Mauritius and Rio+20 conferences. As articulated by the Hon. 
Prime Minister of Samoa: “the 'special case of SIDS’ is a clear recognition by 
partners of our vulnerabilities and the unique challenges faced by o ur small, 
isolated, but incredibly beautiful and unique island nations”. 
 
 4. We share the concerns the UN Secretary General raised a few months ago 
at the UN Climate Summit on Climate change in New York about the extreme 
vulnerability of Small Island Developi ng States. The Pacific region has many of the 
most low -lying countries on Earth – Kiribati, Tuvalu and the Marshall Islands, 
parts of FSM, Cook Islands, Fiji, Palau, Solomon Islands, PNG, as well as Nauru. 
 
5. Although our Pacific countries only contribute 0 .03% of the world’s 
greenhouse gas emissions, we will be the first to go under water if the business as 
usual scenarios of the IPCC eventuate. We have continuously called for ambitious 
global targets which would ensure our long term survival as nations. As you may 
know, SIDS have called for the most ambitious target of limiting global warming 
to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre -industrial levels.  
 
6. We must all work collectively, with a sense of urgency and purpose, to 
address these challenges a nd to support all island countries to become more 
resilient. 
 
7. In the Pacific, our actions on the ground focus on strengthening resilience 
– through implementation of climate change adaptation and renewable energy 
strategies in sectors such as water, agricu lture, food security, health, tourism, 
energy and coastal zone management, continuing to build on the lessons and good 
practices from our climate change projects. 
 
8. Pacific island countries are taking measures to protect and better manage 
natural ecosystems and address emerging challenges. This is vital to protect our 
precious island biodiversity and also as a key front line response to a changing 
climate and rising sea levels. Our work on the ground is based on the best 
available science, drawn from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
and other credible research programs. 
 
9. The point is that the Pacific Island Countries have done a lot on climate 
change with limited resources, but much more n eeds to be done. On adaptation, 
we need to replicate the successes of effective projects. This is a key message for 
the UNFCCC – the Pacific have the skills and knowledge to implement real tangible 
solutions. The guidance to the financing mechanisms sho uld call for flexibility for 
SIDS and allow for replication of best practices, and should be commensurate to 
needs in the region. 
 
10. The climate change negotiations are entering a crucial stage as we prepare 
for developing a new legal instrument. While many terms are being used to 
describe it, in the region our stakeholders are very clear that we talk about a 
legally binding treaty. The Pacific needs certainty and assurances that all countries 
will do what the eventual treaty will say. The issue is too i mportant. Climate 
change has as much if not more destructive power than the scourge of terrorism, 
and we do not hear leaders talk about setting up a voluntary market based 
response to counter terrorism! There are no endless discussions on whether there 
should be co -financing measures to protect our citizens. 
 
11. Furthermore, we hope to seek clarity on the INDC process at this session. 
It is important for the long term survival of SIDS that the ambitions put forward 
by countries deliver real reductions in e missions that can be quantifiable, and are 
measurable and transparent. As mentioned earlier, SIDS stand ready to do their 
part, and with assistance from the international community stand ready to 
contribute with concrete climate actions. We call on devel opment partners to 
accelerate technical and financial support to the Pacific Island countries to enable 
us to develop our INDCs and translate our ambitious aspirations into actions. 
 
12. While SIDS stand ready to contribute to global actions on climate chan ge, 
it can only do so through the provision of on -going financial and technical support. 
We are most appreciative, therefore, of the on -going work to ensure that the GCF 
becomes operational, and we trust that the capacity constraints faced by SIDS will 
be taken into consideration when determining criteria to access funds. At the 
same time the Adaptation Fund is an important funding mechanism to our region, 
and we call for continued support, including the 80 million dollars that has been 
requested to ensur e that the AF remains operational. We would also like to note 
that our private sector is willing to engage on climate change but the current one -
size-fits-all approach of the Multilateral Development Banks is not conducive to 
the constructive and innovativ e ideas coming from our region. Having a $10 
million floor for concessional loans represents a “valley of death” for climate 
change financing. 
 
13. Loss and Damage is an important issue to all PSIDS. As such, we fought 
hard to have the Warsaw Internationa l Mechanism established at COP 19.  
 
14. Addressing loss and damage from the adverse effects of climate change is 
an issue of fundamental importance to the Pacific Islands whose communities and 
economies are trying to cope with immediate losses that are no w being 
experienced for which there is no capacity to respond. Indeed the very existence 
of a number of our member countries is in peril and the science tells us that impact 
such as sea level rise, ocean acidification and temperature increases are 
manifest ing faster and in greater volume than predicted just five years ago.  
 
15. We are placed in a position of having to deal with loss and damage from 
climate change impacts that cannot be adapted to. The very survival of our 
member nations is in all our hands . This is a grave responsibility and we must act 
with the urgency it demands. 
 
16. We would like to acknowledge the efforts and work done by the Interim 
Executive Committee on the two -year work plan. We therefore, would like to take 
this opportunity to th ank the members of the interim Executive Committee for 
their efforts and hard work. 
 17. It is imperative that the work ahead places clear focus and priority on 
particularly vulnerable developing countries supported by partners as it is set out 
in Article 4 of the Convention. 
 
18. We are of the opinion that Loss and Damage should be included in the new 
legal agreement within the Ad -hoc Working Group on the Durban Platform for 
Enhanced Action (ADP) and we believe that it must be treated as an individual and 
separate element because work on loss and damage goes beyond the ability and 
threshold of adaptation actions. 
19. It is quite clear to the Pacific that neither adaptation, nor mitigation alone 
will avoid the damages and losses that are currently being exp erienced and will 
continue to experience in the short to medium term. Pacific island countries, 
therefore, view as mandatory that the long -term global temperature rise does not 
exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius and that mitigation ambition accurately reflects the 
long -term global goal. This is crucial for the survival today of particularly 
vulnerable countries and for all countries tomorrow. By keeping global 
temperature rise to below 1.5 C, we can hope for less risk of permanent loss and 
damage in the long term. 
 
20. It is essential that resource mobilization, support and building the capacity 
at the national and regional levels to address the issues related to loss and damage 
continues by establishing a financial facility to complement the work of the 
Executive Committee as it implements its work plan. 
 
21. Although there might be similarities in the work of other bodies outside of 
the Convention let us all be clear that no other international institution deals with 
issues related to human -induced, anthropogenic climate change. Therefore, we 
should always bear this in mind as the focus of our work here. 
 
22. The IPCC AR5 and the presentations made here, has provided us with a 
further wakeup call in relation to the review of the long term goal on climate 
change. F our out of the five RFCs have been identified by IPCC as being of 
moderate to high risk for a warming level of 1.5 degrees: 
 
(i). Unique Systems: Ecosystems and cultures, e.g. coral reef system. Already 
high at 1.5°C warming 
 
(ii). Extreme weather: Tropical cyclones, droughts and floods. High impacts 
on crop yields and water availability. Risk assessed high to moderate at 1.5°C 
 
(iii). Distribution: Unevenly distributed for countries at all levels of 
development. Tropical and low -lying countries most vulnerab le 
 
(iv). Aggregate Impacts: on global economy - Moderate at 1.5°C. Aggregate 
nature insensitive to country differences; and 
 
(v). Singular Events: Irreversible tipping points. Most relevant for sea -level 
rise 
 23. We therefore call for action by the COP to e nsure that this review is 
completed in a timely manner so that it can inform parties in making their INDCs, 
and in informing our decision making in Paris. From our perspective, a 1.5 degree 
target is essential, as we are already experiencing destructive ev ents and impacts 
under the current less than 1 degree Celsius level. 
 
24. Ocean observation and acidification are critical issues for PSIDS and there 
is an extreme lack of observation stations as well as analysis laboratories in SIDS. 
In particular the Paci fic is under -served when it comes to observation stations and 
other forms of data collection. We would urge development partners to support 
SIDS in improving their observation networks and establish new monitoring 
stations. 
 
25. In this regard, the work of WMO on GFCS is welcomed, and again we call 
for development partners to utilize this framework to assist SIDS with enhancing 
their observation systems, including for ocean acidification. 
 
26. We request that the development partners heed our call for greate r 
financial and technical resources to be provided in particular to SIDS regions. 
 
 
We thank you, Mr. President. 
 