The European Union came to Paris with a very clear objective: to
conclude a fair, inclusive, dynamic, durable and ambitious legally
binding climate agreement that will stop climate change over the
century.

Paris is a historic opportunity that we cannot miss.

We must translate the momentum we have seen on the road to Paris
into an ambitious agreement.

The European Union wants to sign an ambitious agreement and not
just any kind of agreement.

We need a robust agreement.

We need a credible agreement.

We need an agreement fit for purpose and fit for the future.
We owe this to the outside world: our citizens and our children.

To succeed, we need every country doing its very best and the world
moving together in the same direction. The world has changed for
the better, and everyone needs to take responsibility.

For the European Union, the credibility of the deal will depend on
our collective ambition.

First, mitigation ambition:

In order to really reduce global emissions, the agreement must have:

A global vision for a long-term operational goal in line with science.
This goal will tell us how and when we need to increase the ambition 
to meet our target;

A regular review every five years to consider the progress made
and raise our collective ambition. This is essential since we
know that initial contributions will not be enough to keep
temperature increase within the below 2 degrees objective.

A robust transparency and accountability system to ensure that
what is promised will be delivered.

These elements are necessary to give the world the confidence that ,
we the governments, are determined to do what it takes to stop
catastrophic climate change.

Second, adaptation ambition.

Beyond emissions reductions, this agreement must help countries,
especially those most vulnerable, adapt to climate change impacts.

The European Union is the world’s leader provider of climate finance
with more than half of the total global climate finance.

Our message to the most vulnerable countries is very clear: you can
count on the European Union.

We have done a lot in the past, and we will continue to do more.

Together, we must conclude a balanced agreement that will help us
reduce emissions while helping the most vulnerable to adapt to the
existing climate impacts.

These are not just the european union's priorities. 

Only a week ago here in Paris, we heard the global leaders call for
these elements by and large in unison.

We have confidence in your leadership and in our collective wisdom
and determination.

The European Union come here to Paris to seal an ambitious deal.
We look forward to the next few days.

Let us get the job done. Together.

