GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY COP22 & CMP 12 November 2016 Mr. President, Excellencies, Heads of Delegations, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, despite huge challenges in terms of security, Socio-economic challenges and living Conditions, has Participated actively in the whole process of negotiation of parties to limit I te industrial level, and for another legally binding agreement at the Paris Climate Conference in December 2015. In November 2015, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as a Least Developed Country Committed to Setting itself on a Low Emissions Development Path. By Signing the Paris Agreement Afghanistan has Mr. President This is an Opportunity for my country to share Parts of its commitments that have been taking in Preparation for COP22. 2 Establishment of a National Committee for the Implementation of the Paris Agreement (NCIPA). The National Committee for the Implementation of the Paris Agreement was established in 2016 approved by the cabinet to facilitate and coordinate the implementation of the Paris Agreement and relevant issues. The Committee is comprised of the Official Delegation members of Afghanistan who participated in the Paris Climate Conference and the additional support team. Afghanistan signed the Paris Agreement alongside 175 other countries at the Signing Ceremony on 22" of April 2016. Signature of the Paris Agreement shows the country’s intention to be bound by the Agreement before its ratification inside Afghanistan by Parliament. In accordance to the Kyoto Protocol, as most of other parties, Afghanistan submitted its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) in advance of the COP21 Paris Conference. The Conference invited Afghanistan (outlined in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 22) to communicate its first NDCs no later than when Afghanistan provided its respective instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession of the Paris Agreement. It is being published online in the NDC Platform developed by the UNFCCC Secretariat. There is an option for Afghanistan to inform the Secretariat if it considers the previous submission of Afghanistan’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) to be its first NDC. Clear and Detailed National Action plans of Afghanistan in line with its ten-year development pathway submitted which includes: Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA) NAM National Adaptation Programme of Action (NAPA) Local NAM and Local National Action Plan (NAP) Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN) Mechanisms Climate Governance Report Mr. President The ratification process for Afghanistan depends mainly on the system of governance. Afghanistan requires the authorization of the Parliament for the ratification of the Paris Agreement; the process is being led by the National Committee for the Implementation of the Paris Agreement, which, the instrument of ratification, acceptation, approval or accession will be formally submitted to the United Nations Secretary-General. It is expected to be completed in 2017. The active engagement of Afghanistan's citizens and local communities in the development of the Paris Agreement over the course of 2016 has been a key element in the preparation process. Keeping in line with this methodology, the outcome and follow-up shall remain transparent and continue to actively involve citizens and local communities. Throughout the preparation process, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has been in close communication with bilateral and multilateral partners to active engage Afghan citizens, civil societies, the academic community, NGOs, and international partners. In conclusion, | would like to reiterate my country’s commitment to the implementation of Paris Agreement and the common voice of global population for a pleasant environment planet.