Excellency General Secretary of the United N ations Excellency President of the COP 23 Excellency Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Climate Change Convention Excel lency Ministers and Heads of Delegation Ladies and Gentlemen On Behalf of the President of Repu blic of Angola, Excellency João Manuel Lourenço and on my own name, I would like to congratulate Fiji for being the first Small Island Developing State presiding a COP. I would also like to congratulate and thank both the Government of Fi ji and the Govern ment of Germany for hosting COP2 3. Allow me also to congratulate His Excellency Frank Bainimarama, Prime Minister of Fiji, for his election as the President of the Conference of the Parties. Exce llencies, Climate Change remains the greatest challenge facing humanity. The trans -boundary nature of its causes and effects, have prompted governments, civil society, the scientific community and other actors to seek a global response to this challenge. To a developin g country such as Angola, this g lobal response must be one that recognizes the urgency to act, the need for all to act and the capacity to act. This global response must reconcile all of these with the historical responsibility for the dangerous concentration of gr een house gases in the atmosphere and the need to ensure continued progress towards poverty eradication, sustained economic growth and sustainable development. Multilateralism has thus far proven an effective and appropriate tool build the necessary consen sus to tackle climate change. When guided by science, justice and equity, we have been able to advance our promise protect the planet for future generations. Such was the case with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, its Kyoto Protocol, its seco nd commitment period and since 2015 the Paris Agreement. As we progress towards the operationalization of the latter, we must recognize that all are equally valid instruments, crafted to guide our actions in a manner that is consistent with the principles of the convention. In this regard, we call upon all parties, in particular developed country parties, to honor all commitments made thus far. Collectively, these commitments are the building blocks of the global edifice for climate action. Hence we call up on all Parties that have not done so, to rectify the Second Commitment Pe riod of the Kyoto Protocol, the instrument that guides climate action in the period up to 2020. My own country is engaged in this process, and we are confident that his will occur in a timely fashion. Ladies and Gentleman, The Republic of Angola recognizes that the adverse impacts of Climate Change continue to worsen, as experienced through severe droughts and abnormal precipitation patterns. Throughout the world, these phenomena often result in the loss of life and damage the social and economic infrastructure for development. In the last year alone, extreme weather events proved deadly in the Caribbean, Asia and Africa. I would like to take this opportunity to ex press our solidarity with all affected. In addition to severe weather events, climate change is responsible for intensifying challenges to food and energy security, public health challenges and much more. As a result, Angola is engaged in the process of adopting a National Cli mate Action Plan 2018 -2030 which vision is a country adapted to the effects of Climate Change with low carbon development that contributes to poverty eradication. This strategy will guide Angola’s contribution to global climate action and by extension; enact the necessary framework for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. As we progress towards 2020, it is imperative that we take stock of the actions we have collectively taken in accordance with the decisions and commitments made. We note with concern the large gap between the levels of ambition needed to reach the long -term temperature goal of limiting temperature rise to 1.5oC above pre industrial levels. While we are encouraged by the fact that 170 Parties have ratified the Par is Agreement, ratification alone will not bridge the gap. Further gaps exist in the level of financial flows and access to technology to developing countries, as our ability to act is limited by access to adequate means of implementation. Exellencies, We m ust also recognize that there are impacts of climate change that we will be unable to avoid. Adapting must be recognized as a key feature of our discourse. In this regard, we wish to call the attention of us all to the plight of the Least Developed Countri es Fund. This is a unique instrument of the convention to provide support for urgent adaptation needs of the least capable to respond to the challenges to development climate change is posing. Its ability to respond is dependent upon he voluntary contribut ion of developed countries and countries in a position to do so. Mr. President LDCs face unique and unprecedented challenges as recognized by our convention. Accordingly, provisions have been made to afford LDCs the necessary support and flexibility. In t his context, we look forward to considering provisions for countries undergoing the process of Smooth Transition from LDC status. Mr. President, The urgency of action on Climate Change ha s never been clearer. The global stock take is an important component of the Paris Agreement mechanism to scale up mitigation so as to enable us to meet its objectives. As such, we expect that the modalities for holding such a stock take will enable us all to take the necessary actions to put the world on track to meet the long -term temperature goal, as well as recognize the corresponding adaptation objectives and efforts. Exce llencies, Allow me to finalize by calling on all parties to engage in the negotiations in the spirit of Paris, characterized by a deep sentiment of solidarity and of a shared destiny. I thank you