1 Statement by The Honourable Gaston Browne Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Corporate Governance and Public Private Partnerships of Antigua and Barbuda First Part of the High -Level Segment United Nations Climate Change Conference Dubai, Unit ed Arab Emirates, 2023 on Saturday 2nd December 2023 Check against delivery. 2 Excellencies, I am before you not only as the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda but as a voice for all small island states, suffocating under the weight of a crisis we did not create. Our beautiful islands, once paradises on Earth, now stand on the front lines of a global war against climate change - a war where we are the greatest casualties although we are the least contributors to the conflict. We are facing an existential paradox: t he smallest contributors to global CO2 emissions, yet among the hardest hit by climate catastrophes. This is not just an environmental crisis; it is a glaring testament to a world order where profits are prioritized over people and planet. It is a world w here oil and gas conglomerates, shielded by the power of wealthy nations, continue to reap astronomical profits while the survival of nations like ours hangs in the balance. The irony is as bitter as it is unjust. The global com munity made promises in Par is, yet the pace of change is lethargically slow, dangerously incremental. We must confront this reality: if we breach the 1.5 degrees threshold, the consequences will be catastrophic, not just for small islands but for the ent ire world. The weapons of m ass destruction of our time are not explosive devices, but rising temperatures, scorching droughts, and relentless sea level rise - all consequences of unchecked avarice and apathy. Our proposal for a carbon tax, backed by nat ions like France and Kenya, is not just a call for action; it is a plea for justice. We stand firm in our support for a Fossil Fuel Non -Proliferation Treaty. It’s time to curb the reckless exploitation of fossil fuels. Let me be clear: The path we choos e today will determine the fate of generations to come. 3 We call for bold, immediate actions: a relentless pursuit of the 1.5 degrees goal, substantial funding for loss and damage, and transformative finance that respects our vulnerability. We must act w ith the urgency this crisis deman ds. We must act now.