Statement of the head of delegation of the Republic of Armenia at the 24th session of the Conference of the Parties of UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 14th Conference of the Parties serving as the Conference of the Parties of the Kyoto Protocol and 3rd part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement Katowice, Poland 12 December 2018 Excellences, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me express my gratitude to the Government of Poland for hosting and the excellent organization of the Climate Conference. Combating climate change is one of the policy priorities of the Armenian government, and our country is fully determined to fulfill its obligations under the Paris Agreement by considering the importance of joint efforts on this matter. I am happy to anno unce that the Republic of Armenia is taking a leading role in the region by mainstreaming and integrating climate change consideration into the national development framework and into the development plans of all sectors. Armenia, remaining committed to low -carbon development strategy, following its quantified commitments for limitation of the growth of greenhouse gases is undertaking tangible steps to increase the share of renewable energy use, and reduction of carbon intensity of the GDP. Our main aim is to offer our citizens not only clean, secure but also affordable energy, and we recognize that it can be achieved if domestic efforts would be complemented with international cooperation mechanisms under the Convention. The consequences of climate change are evident in Armenia where significant temperature increase was recorded in the recent years; Armenia is among the most climate -vulnerable countries in the Europe and Central Asia region. We are determined to double th e current forest cover of our country by the next three decades through combining partnership and financial instruments including green private investments, Debt for Nature Swap and REDD+. Over the past year the Republic of Armenia has developed a unique and innovative climate finance mechanism. This mechanism is a combination of the concept of debt - for-nature and the commitments undertaken in the framework of the Paris Agreement. We believe this mechanism can be successfully scaled and we would be happy to share our experience and knowledge in developing and utilizing it. With the contribution from the Green Climate Fund, Armenia will incentivize private sector participation in regional cli mate actions since the business engagement is key to developing and performing detailed country specific climate change plans and programs. Yesterday we signed a momentous agreement with the Green Climate Fund to ensure more effective implementation of th e activities of the Fund in our country. We already started readiness and national adaptation plans, joined the NDC Partnership. Two weeks ago w e signed a grant agreement with the German Development Bank for the largest sustainable development program in region, Ladies and Gentlemen, Three years after the Paris Agreement was adopted, we may acknowledge that transition to a low -carbon economy also gives rise to new economic opportunities, creating new jobs and reducing poverty. We should therefore make the most of those rising opportunities by boosting national capacities, developing and implementing innovative financial solutions and, finally, enabling our businesses and local communities to contribute to, and benefit f rom, the global transition towards sustai nable low -emissions development, Instead of climate related costs to climate related investments. The Government of the Republic of Armenia is looking forward beyond the existing commitments and moving towards more ambitious targets. The Earth is one and this is the most urgent time to act. Thank you for your attention.