Statement of the Delegation of the Republic of Armenia COP22, Marrakech Armenia notes with dismay the heavily politicized and factually incorrect statement of the representative of Azerbaijan. T he Climate Change Conference in Marrakech, being a major event on the road to operationalize the Paris Agreement, has been mis used by the Azerbaijani for the dissemination of Azerbaijan’s propagandistic falsified information. As the C limate Change Conference is not at all the appropriate forum for discussing issue s connected with the resolution of conflicts, the delegation of Armenia will limit itself to the following statement: On December 10, 1991, the population of Nagorno- Karabakh declared through a referendum the decision to establish independent Nagorno- Kara bakh Republic, fully in accordance with the norms of the international law, the existing laws of the USSR of the time. Th us, Nagorno- Karabakh is а sovereign Republic with attributes of government. Our delegation denies any and all allegations that were voiced by Azerbaijan. Unfortunately, this is not the first time. Azerbaijan’s delegations have been abusing their participation in each and every international fora for dissemination of their xenophobic and racist propaganda, not only falsif ying the history and reality of our region, but also trying to deviate the attention of the international community, as well as its own population from the corruption and poverty in their country, by putting the blame for all their unresolved issues on everybody else, except themselves. Moreover, it is Azerbaijan that has committed aggress ion and perpetrated crimes against humanity. It was A zerbaijan that responded to the referendum and peaceful expression of will of the population of Nagorno Karabakh by massacres, killing s and later full -scale war against the people of Nagorno Karabakh and all the Armenian population of Azerbaijan. We regr et that Azerbaijan yet once again has misused this most important Conference in Marrakech for its own agenda by spreading its false accusations on a subject totally unrelated to our Climate Change and to our Conference. 16 November, 2016