1 COP24 High Level Segment – Australian Government National Statement 12 December, 2018 Mr President, Ministers, Colleagues. I thank Poland for hosting this important session of the Conference of the Parties. Australia also pays tribute to Fiji as the first Pacific COP presidency, and for excellent leadership on the Talanoa Dialogue that has taken place over this year. The clear message from the dialogue is that we must act; and act together, because climate change affects us all, and Australia must play its part. Australia is committed to the Paris Agreement, and to ensuring that we agree on a robust rulebook here in Katowice. We are on track to meet and beat our 2020 Kyoto commitments. And we are conf ident we will meet our 2030 target – which represents a halving of emissions per person. Around the world, countries are laying the foundations for a low -emissions global economy. Australia is no different. We have policies to align strong economic grow th with emissions reduction. We are moving towards a new energy future, while ensuring energy remains affordable and reliable. [Mr President] While the Australian economy has experienced 27 years of economic growth, we have driven our emissions per unit of GDP to its lowest level in 28 years. 2 Emissions in our electricity sector are falling, driven by unprecedented investment in renewable energ y – Australia has one of the highest rates of uptake of residential solar in the world. Our Clean Energy Finance Corporation, the world’s largest green bank, has leveraged nearly $20 billion in low emissions technology investment. Australia has one of th e world’s largest reserves of lithium and we are investing in lithium mining to provide the resources that will fuel the battery storage revolution. [Mr President] The Paris Agreement demonstrates how the international community can work together to so lve the global problem of climate change. Australia believes that e ffective international action requires a clear understanding of what countries are committing to and whether those commitments are being met. Paris is premised on parties working toget her, collectively and transparently. It’s in this cooperative spirit that Australia shares our science, skills and experience with others. Our emissions reporting is of an exceptionally high standard. We are proud of this and welcome the opportunity t o partner with countries like Indonesia, Thailand and Kenya to share our experience in emissions measurement, reporting and verification. We also work with countries around the world on energy solutions, such as through the International Solar Alliance, based in India. Australia is also using our natural resources to provide the low emissions fuels of the future. 3 Our Liquefied Natural Gas exports could save importing countries around 130 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent a year … …And w e have huge potential to produce hydrogen. In 2018 we were proud to begin building a hydrogen supply chain from the La Trobe Valley to Japan. Australia is also playing its part to support countries to adapt to the impacts of climate change. Australia is impl ementing its commitment of $1 billion in climate finance to 2020, with a particular focus on building resilience in the Pacific, one of the most vulnerable regions in the world. [Mr President] Robust implementation guidance for the Paris Agreement will e nsure action by all countries. Australia calls on all Parties to work together to secure a comprehensive, robust rulebook. Common rules will lead to action to achieve our shared goals. Thank you.