Please check against delivery Twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 24) Statement by Mr. Abdullah Al Mohsin Chowdhury Permanent Secretary Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh Katowice, Poland December 2018 Page | 2 Bismillahir Rahmanir Rahim Exce llencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Assalamu Alaikum and a very Good Morning/ Afternoon/Evening. It is my pleasure to join you all in this beautiful and peaceful city of Katowice. At the onset, let me congratulate the Polish Government and its people for the 100th anniversary of their independence. Moreover, I would also like to express my sincere tha nks to them for successively organizing three Conferences of Parties ( COPs ) including this important one. Climate change is a reality for everybody. But the vulnerable countries are taking unequal burden of the adverse impacts. In 2015 in Paris, we created a solid ground for a meaningful cooperation in addressing climate change impacts. Since the Paris Agreement, we have not yet been able to take decisive actions to implement the Agreement. Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, The recently published IPCC special report on 1.5 degree celcius global warming is again another eye opener after the IPCC 5th Assessment Report. The report clearly states that the increase in world warming will reach 1.5 degree Celsius above pre -industrial level between 2030 to 2052. We are indeed fast approaching the point of no return to be able to reverse the adverse impacts of climate change. Good news is that, we have the scientific understanding, technological ca pacity and even financial means to cope with the climate change. Unfortunately, we lack in political will to act at global scale. Page | 3 Excellencies, In the recent years Bangladesh maintained a sustained economic growth of well over 7%, which help reducing overall poverty and ensuring econo mic development of the country. This hard earned development gains and our efforts to achieve SDGs are being seriously challenged due to negative impacts of climate change. Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen My country is working relentlessly to overcome our vulnerabilities. Over the last decade we have spent on an average around US$ 1 billion annually to address climate change. Furthermore, t o achieve climate resilience, w e created a dedicated Cl imate Change Trust Fund in 2009. So far, we have allocated more than US$ 4 10 million from this fund for adaptation and mitigation programs. Excellencies Despite our limited resources and being one of the least emitters in the world, Bangladesh is pursuing a low carbon development path with increasing emphasis on renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy conservation. Over the last few years, we have installed more than five million solar home systems in off grid areas of the country and more than 3.5 million improved cook stoves in rural areas. Page | 4 Excellencies Climate change is a global challenge and we have to resort to global solution s. The Paris Agreement is the most pragmatic and effective global deal towards global solution. Being a responsible nation, Bangladesh had put forward quantified emission reduction commitment s through its Nationally Determined C ontributions (NDCs ). We have also developed NDC implementation roadmap together with sectoral mitigation action plans. In this case, mobilization of resources is critical in realizing our objective s. Excellencies Role of climate finance in implementation of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement is critical. The Convention and the Paris Agreement recognize the special circumstance and needs of the v ulnerable countries. We must act accordingly. In order to undertake climate actions meaningfully, be it adaptation, mitigation, loss and damage or technology transfer, adequacy of resources to that of US$ 100 billion annually must be mobilized. In this respect I see a very crucial role of GCF to make a true difference. Excellencies As we conclude the Talanoa Dialogue with enhanced ambition, w e must share equitable burden to fulfill our promises for a sustainable environment and a sustainable future for our next generations. We had reached a critical moment and the full implementation of the Paris Agreement must not be pushed further. I thank you all.