1 | P a g e Please Check Against Delivery Bang ladesh National Statement at the High Level Segment in COP23 to UNFCCC 16 November 2017 Bonn, Germany President of COP23 Distinguished Heads of Delegation Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC Excellences, Ladies and Gentle men Good Afternoon, My delegation and I wish to express our sincere appreciation to the Government of Germany and the Fijian Presidency for hosting and organizing this important event, very efficiently. Mr. President, Emission know s no boundary. Ultima tely, it accumulate s in the atmosphere that lead s to increas ed global temperature. Adverse impacts of c limate change go beyond the boundar ies of the emitter s. Lives and livelihoods of millions of people continue to be at risk and it is increasing day by da y. Thus, it is urgent that we take all possible steps to control the global warming process. Paris Agreement provides us a clear path way for achieving a low emission and climate resilient world. Entry into force of the Paris Agreement by the Parties in a shortest possible time was unprecedented. This affirmed our political will to fight against global warming and climate change. 2 | P a g e Excellences, Distinguished Delegates, Adverse impacts of climate change are being fel t very strongly globally including my cou ntry. We experienced untimely flood this year in April, followed by second flood in July and suffered from late monsoon flood in September/October. All th ese floods had severely damaged rice production - the main staple food of our people and threatened ou r food security. Bangladesh had achieved self - sufficiency in food through research and hard work. The loss of crops has forced Bangladesh move out to purchase rice from global market. Besides these floods, the country suffered from unusually heavy rainf all in the southeastern hill districts causing landslides. Floods and landslides had killed hundre ds of our people. Due to short -duration heavy rainfall, the cities including the Capital Dhaka have suffer ed from unusual drainage congestion s. In addition, Storm surges and cyclones are battering our coast al belt s regularly. All these are contributing to increased internal displacement and migration, which have s ignificant socio -political and economic consequences in a densely populated country like Bangladesh. This issue must be addressed in the context of Loss and Damage. Excellences and Distinguished Delegates, The success of the Paris Agreement will largely depend on the ability of its members in the implementation of their mitigation and adaption plans an d strategies. Moreover, effective implementation of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) by the countries is also 3 | P a g e critical. To this end, particularly v ulnerable countries should receive special attention and support to meet their conditional NDCs. Reemphasizing the need of substantial support for vulnerable countries in terms of finance, t echnology and capacity building, I am afraid that the delivery mechanism s for support are not as effective as expected. It is important for LDCs and particularly vu lnerable countries that the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism serving the Convention and the Paris Agreement must put in place simplified and streamlined application, approval and disbursement procedures. Distinguished Delegates, We understand that enhanced climate action enables the delivery of the full range of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The effective implementation of NDCs will essentially contribute to achieving SDGs by the countries. Hence, i ntegration of NDCs and SDGs into natio nal development process is important. Although Adapta tion is our priority, nevertheless, we are focusing on energy efficiency, energy conservation and renewable energy. We have achieved a major success through the installation of over 4.5 million Solar Hom e Systems across the country especially in remote rural areas. We are working on climate resilient cropping system. We have developed stress tolerant varieties of crops. We have introduced solar -powered irrigation pumps. 4 | P a g e We are pioneer in preparing Countr y Investment Plan on Environment, Forest and Climate Change, where we identified priority areas for investment. This opens up the oppor tunity for partners to invest in priority areas of mutual benefits. Excellences and Distinguished Delegates, We expected that preparation of the Rule Book for operationalizing the Paris Agreement would make significant progress in COP23. However, we have seen slow progress. We underscore that political leadership should get engage d in serious consultations to provide concre te political guidance in moving the negotiation forward and finalize the Paris Work Program for adoption by COP 24 in 2018. I thank you.