Unofficial tran slation Check against delivery 27th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Resumed High -level Segment November 15, 2022 Statement of the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Belarus to the Arab Republic of Egypt H.E. Mr Sergei TERENTIEV Dear Mr. Chairman ! Distinguished delegates and participants of the meeting ! Despite all our common efforts, 2022 has not brought comforting news about the stabilization of the climate situation. The climate continues to change before our eyes. Now the States face two most important tasks. First, reducing emissions and slowing the pace of global warming. Secondly, countries must adapt to the effects of climate change in order to protect their citizens and economies. Climate change trends dictate the need for further development of national strategies and measures to mitigate the effects of such changes, along with adaptation strategi es and measures. Belarus has already developed and adopted adaptation strategies for agriculture and forestry up to 2050 and national action plans for adaptation of agriculture and forestry in Belarus up to 2030 for particularly climate -dependent industrie s. A number of other strategic and program documents also include measures to adapt to climate change. Today Belarus needs a comprehensive National Action Plan in the field of adaptation to climate change, which should join together all socio -economic sectors, including industry, energy, transport, construction, housing and communal services, forestry and agriculture, and healthcare. At the same time, there is no universal solution in the field of adaptation that c ould be applied at the national level yet. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that effective adaptation to climate change depends on many factors – not only on public policy, but also on the involvement of other participants in this process at the national, regional and international l evels with the active participation of international organizations and donors. 2 During the Conference of the Parties, we will work on the establishment of the global adaptation goal, which should be both ambitious and achievable by our countries and be in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement. The Republic of Belarus has joined the statement initiated by the World Meteorological Organization on early w arning systems for the implementation of tasks on adaptation to climate change. We consider this step to be fundamental to address the climate change. In Belarus, the early warning system for dangerous hydrometeorological phenomena is one of the priorities of the national hydrometeorological service. An increase d number of extreme weather phenomena and their unpredictability negatively affect agriculture and food security of the country. But I have to state that human induced measures are also joining the n atural phenomena, including restrictions on the access to fertilizers and food from Belarus at the world markets. This further aggravates the global food crisis. I would like to state that Belarus has committed to reduc e greenhouse gas emissions by 35 percent by 2030 from 1990 levels. This goal is ambitious for the country, because we are taking all possible measures to achieve it, using only our own resources and capacities. In 2020, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 38.9 percent, and with inclusion of removals in the LULUCF sector – by 56.3 percent. At the same time, the sanctions imposed by the collective West, the United States, EU and satellites, not only negatively affects economic development of Belarus, but als o is an obstacle to increasing the ambition of our international climate commitments, which ultimately negatively affects our common global efforts to combat climate change. The Republic of Belarus understands the call of the international community to increase the mitigation ambition. But we expect support from donors and international organizations, including the Global Environment Facility, to assist our state in this area as mandated at relevant COP, CMP and CMA decisions, what does not happen in reality. Any unilateral measures that hinder the economic development of countries undermine international efforts to fulfill the obligations under the Paris Agreement and achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The real goal of the global climate efforts should be combatting climate change to ensure environmental well -being and security of every country and every person, but not the geopolitical ambitions of individual states.