CHECK AGAINST DELIVERY 1 Statement by Mr. Chencho Norbu Secretary of National Environment Commission, Royal Government of Bhutan at the High Level Segment of COP22/CMP12/CMA1, Marrakech, Morocco 17 November 2016 Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, At the outset, allow me to express my delegation’s deep appreciation to His Majesty the King of Morrocco, the government of Morocco, and the city of Marrakech, for the warm welcome and excellent arrangements during this historic conference. My delegation also associates with the statements made by the Chairs of Group 77 & China, and the Group of the Least Developed Countries. Mr. President We join the other parties in welcoming the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement. I am pleased to inform that Bhutan is in the advanced stages of ratifying the agreement. Our National Assembly is considering the Agreement right now at its winter session. Bhutan already ratified the Doha Amendments to the Kyoto Protocol in 2015, and we call on all other Parties to do the same. Mr. President, Last year, in Paris, the global community reaffirmed the multilateral process, and forged a durable landmark agreement to tackle one of the greatest challenges facing humanity. This year in Marrakech, we have started our work with optimism while acknowledging that there is much to be done. The conference in Marrakech is on “Action”, and we must find technologies and resources to implement country driven actions. Clear guidance for moving forward on the NDCs for mitigation action is needed along with identified communication channels to convey our priorities and requirements for the adaptation interventions. We must engage ourselves constructively to complete the pending works to implement the Paris Agreement at the earliest. Mr. President Bhutan has long followed a cautious approach to sustainable development and maintained over 70% of her geographical areas under forest cover for the well being of the local, and global community. Our ecosystem goods and services are healthy with clean air and water. We are carbon negative and committed to a carbon neutral growth. CHECK AGAINST DELIVERY 2 However, as a small, landlocked and mountainous country, Bhutan is highly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. Our glaciers are receding rapidly, and frequent extreme weather events are hitting hard on our rural communities, food and water sectors in particular. In our INDC, we have identified our adaptation priorities including mitigation measures. We are keen to start implementing these actions and support from the global community will be critical for us to succeed. Mr. President. Looking forward, climate change is happening and the most vulnerable and poorest across all countries are being hit the hardest. We built a durable agreement in Paris through the multilateral process, and we must now double our efforts to maintain the momentum for action at all levels. Thank you and Tashi Delek.