Dear President of this Conference of Parties, Distinguished Heads of State and Government, Dear Ministers, Sisters and Brothers : First, let me express to you the affectionate salutation sent to you by our President Evo Morales Ayma, who is always working tirelessly for the rights of our peoples. Sisters and brothers, The current climate crisis is the result of capitali sm, it is the history of the “maldevelopment ” of those countries that, trough industrialization, have broken the harmony within Mother Earth, putting all humanity at risk. Sisters and brothers, Today, we can not gather here and have a dialogue among us, as if that history has not happened. We must not forget that those who have generated most of GHG emissions, also are in better technological and financial conditions to tackle the impacts of climate change. The recognition of this historical responsibility and the subsequent obligations that it generates, is essential to prevent that global warming exceed its critical level. Only equity and climate justice will make us face the catastrophe without leaving anyone behind. We strongly insist that the structural cause of this climate crisis is the capitalist system. In the words of our P resident Evo, capitalism is "the most savage and destructive formula by our species, and turns everything into a commodity for the benefit of a few ". Although we are aware that the Paris Agreement does not resolve its contradictions, it can become the star ting point to save humanity. For this reason, our plurinational delegation has worked tirelessly along with other fellow parties to jumpstart the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Brother President, Bolivia has contributed to the initiate the operationalization of the Platform of Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities, confident that the Convention will be strengthened wit h their effective participation. We are convinced that our peoples have a lot to contribute so that humanity can r eturn to a path of Harmony with in Mother Earth. We have insisted on the need to promote non -market -based approaches, oriented towards integral and sustainable development, so cooperation helps to solve the problems of people s and their life systems, and not the problems of capital. Likewise, we continue working to ensure access to climate finance for all non-industrialized countries within a framework of climate justice and equity, and not through profit -based schemes. Brothers and Sisters, Today, we must celebrate the entry of Nicaragua and Syria into the Paris Agreement, but we can not do it without denouncing the unjustifiab le withdrawal of the United States from th e same Agre ement. Perhaps this represents a sign of the times: the country w ith the greatest historical responsibility for the climate crisis, has become completely isolated in the intern ational community on this issue. In that sense, we demand that developed countries increase their commitment to fill the gap of financial and mi tigation responsibilities left by the irresponsible withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Agreement. Beyond the commitments assumed in the Agreement, Bolivia continue s to advance the Mother Earth Rights approach. Due to a strengthened institutionalization, our achievements include: • In water, we have made unpre cedented investments to ensure the right to water for life, in a resilient way. • In energy, we have started the transformation of our energy matrix towards renewable energies, significantly increased our energy efficiency, and developing innovative solutions such as “Mi Teleferico ”, the largest low - emission urban cableway transport system of its kind in the world. • In forests, we have initiated the implemen tation of the Joint Mitigation and Adaptation Mechanism for the Integral and Sustainable Management of Forests, our alternative solution to REDD and other payment -by-results schemes. Finally, from Bolivia we affirm that the implementation of the Paris Agreement will be possible if we maintain a balanced process of negotiations in which all parties act according to their historical responsibilities. We will not solve the impacts of capitalism with more capitalism. Only by transforming the system into one that recognizes climate justice we will be able to restore harmony within Mother Earth. Please accept a fraternal, revolutionary and Bol ivarian greeting, from Bolivia, Heart of the south. Thank you very much.