STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA, MRS. BORJANA KRIŠTO, AT THE UN CONFERENCE ON CLIMATE CHANGE – COP 28 United Arab Emirates/Dubai December 2023 Ladies and Gentlemen, We have gathered here to address key concerns that affect us all —issues impacting our planet and future generations. We find ourselves at a pivotal moment in human history. The issue of c limate change is not isolated to specific regions; rather, it poses a global threat, demanding urgent, coordinated, and decisive action. Bosnia and Herzegovina is dedicated to pursuing a more sustainable future and actively engages in this crucial discourse on climate changes. Recognizing the gravity of our current situatio n and the challenges we face, we are prepared to contribute to the global effort to preserve our planet. Our commitment to combating climate change is unwavering and extends across all domains of our society. We are dedicated to transitioning to renewable energy sources to reduce greenhouse gases and their impact on the natural environment. Shifting to renewable energy sources is not only imperative but also a unique opportunity to build a more sustainable, economically stable, and ecologically sensitive so ciety in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Through investments in renewable energy technology and investment incentives, Bosnia and Herzegovina aims to partner global efforts to reduce greenhouse gases and mitigate climate change. We wholeheartedly support global in itiatives and endeavors for environmental sustainability and protection. We endorse and adhere to guidelines and recommendations stemming from United Nations initiatives, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Chang e. We have established and implemented the Western Balkans Green Agenda concept, a strategy aimed at aligning environmental policies of Western Balkan countries with the European Green Deal. This involves a shift to a sustainable economy, represented by fi ve pillars: decarbonization; circular economy; reduction of environmental pollution; sustainable rural communities; and protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. These measures are outlined in the Sofia Declaration Action Plan. Achieving t he Green Agenda's objectives requires cooperation, knowledge and technology exchange, and international community support. We are resolute in taking responsibility and actively participating in common efforts to achieve a sustainable future for all. Fully recognizing the importance of implementing plans to preserve our planet for future generations, our unwavering dedication and determination are evident. We aspire to engage more proactively in global efforts related to climate change, cooperating with othe r countries and sharing positive experiences and resources towards our common goal —preserving the planet Earth. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina, with full responsibility, joins the Emirate s Declaration on Resilient Food Systems, Sustainable Agriculture, and Climate Actions. It marks a significant step towards global partnership and is key to addressing challenges posed by climate change. As a responsible member of the international community, we recognize the urgent need for joint action to preserve our planet for future generations. By joining the Emirate s Declaration, we convey a strong message of solidarity and shared responsibility towards the preservation of our planet. We encourage othe r countries to follow our example and join this global effort, aiming to collectively build a more sustainable, resilient, and prosperous society for all. On behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I reaffirm our dedication, readiness, and desire for proactive cooperation in the fight against climate change. We believe that only together, as a global community, we can bring about significant changes and ensure the safety of our planet for generations to come. Thank you!