1 STATEMENT BY HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT LIEUTENANT GENERAL DR. SERETSE KHAMA IAN KHAMA AT CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES (COP 22) MARRAKECH, MOROCCO 15TH NOVEMBER 2016 2 President of COP 22 Majesty King Mohammed VI Heads of States Secretary General of the United Nations, Ban Ki Moon Ladies and Gentlemen 1. Let me at the on set express my gratitute to the Kingdom of Morro cco for hosting this 22nd C onference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 2. Botswana is proud to be one of the founding signatories to the Paris Agreement which was so s uccessfully negotiated at CoP21. Botswana is also proud to have ratified on the 11th November 2016. It is our expect ation that CoP22 provide s conclusive guidance and action towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 3. The Paris Agreement is premised upon the recognition of economic and human development needs and priorities of developing countries, whilst emphasizing the necessary leadership in climate action of developed countries. It is therefore gratifying to note that the Agreement aims to 3 strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change by following a sustainable development pathway, by so doing complementing the objective of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 4. Botswana is com mitted to reduce her greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2030. Our Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) comprises measure s in such areas as renewable energy, energy efficiency, and t ransport. Our adaptation efforts focus largely on such vulnerable sector s as agriculture, water and health. 5. In addressing climate change, w e continue to incur considerable costs of an environmental and economic nature and we have thus indicated that our ability to implement our NDC pledge will require the support of t he international community. We will therefore seek to utilise the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to assist us in reaching our aspirations. 6. One area in which we would like to advocate for greater international cooperation is in getting an improved understanding of the value of our natural capital and how 4 our resources may be affected by climate change. The Botswana tourism sector is a case in point. Largely based on our attractive nature and wildlife abundance, the sector is at risk because of shifting ecosystems, changing water regimes and species migration due to the effects of climate change. Our protected areas may in the future not hold th e very wildlife species and habitats on the basis of which they are currently protected. This is indeed a daunting scenario. 7. Our rivers, forests, agricultural lands and other resources are equally at risk and in order to have a better appreciation of their current economic value Botswana has been spearheading a platform called the Gaborone Declaration for Sustainability in Africa (GDSA) which focuses on natural capital valuation and acco unting for sustainable development. 8. The GDSA recognizes that the historical pattern of natural resources exploitation has failed to promote sustained levels of economic growth, environmental integrity and improved social capital and therefore a concerted effort is needed to halt and reverse the degr adation and loss of healthy ecosystems and biodiversity, so as to redirect the transformation of natural endowment into enhanced 5 physical, social and human capital as well as improved livelihoods. The effects of climate change have a direct impact on the w ay we sho uld manage our natural capital. 9. Through efforts in natural capital accounting, sustainable agriculture, payment for ecosystem services, and ecosystem -based adaptation, the GDSA will contribute directly to climate change adaptation and will build the adaptive capacity of communiti es in transitioning towards a green economy. The GDSA is thus committed to securing ecological health for the African region despite the fact that climate change, alongside habitat destruction, biodiversity loss, and watershed and forest depletion, poses a real threat to the sustainability of nature and human kind. 10. Although the climate challenges are immense, we need to be attuned to the fact they do present ample opportunit ies. Doing business in a carbon -constrained world requires a different skills base and different kinds of jobs will emerge in such sectors as energy, agriculture, tourism and transport. We need to be visionary and provide the right incentives to tap into this potential. 6 11. In conclusion, Botswana st ands ready to play its part in the implementation of the Paris Agre ement which we are in the process of ratifying within the foreseeable future. Thank you for your attention.