Minister Sarney Filho’s Speech COP-23 High-Level Segment Bonn, Germany, /11/2017 Mr. President, Brazil is once again present at the Conference of the Parties of the Framework Convention on Climate Change with concrete and ambitious proposals to carry out the collective undertaking of implementing the Paris Agreement. During these two weeks of conference, our country has had some very relevant news in this agenda: Deforestation rates in protection areas for last year were released, and they signal a global reduction of 28%. The fall reached 65% in the most critical area in the Amazon – the Jamanxin National Forest. The National Plan for the Restoration of Native Vegetation (PLANAVEG) was signed, and we have just sent to Congress a new bill, written together by the Ministries of the Environment and of Agriculture, establishing a new national biofuel policy (RenovaBio), which will increase the efficiency of biofuel production and at the same time reduce emissions. Here in Bonn, BASIC, made up of Brazil, South Africa, India and China, presented a joint statement in defense of the implementation of the terms established in Paris. I am sure that our position represents all developing countries and defends the integrity of the Agreement. We also strengthened our fraternal alliance with Uruguay and Argentina, with which we have worked as an extended delegation in the Conference negotiations. Crowning this virtuous sequence, I announced yesterday that Brazil offered to host COP 25 in 2019, which should be based in a Latin American or Caribbean country. We have a long history of important international meetings and we intend to keep this tradition. Our challenge is to promote sustainable development while at the same time adapting our society and the productive environment to a scenario that is increasingly impacted by climate change. To be successful, it is not enough to take individual measures of containment of emissions and of adaptation. We need to change our development path, revise unsustainable patterns of production and consumption, and promote a low-carbon economy in the long run. Aware of our responsibilities and the global challenge we face, we announced under the Paris Agreement an ambitious national contribution. We are the only major developing country with absolute emissions reduction targets for the economy as a whole: 37% by 2025 and 43% by 2030. We will achieve and, if possible, exceed these targets without giving up job creation, increase in productivity and the resumption of economic growth. The priority areas for our action are sustainable agriculture, renewable energies and combating deforestation. In each sector, we will have specific actions that open new opportunities for business and long-term investments, in line with the objective set. We are currently working to develop a national strategy for implementing and financing our contribution, in consultation with civil society, the private sector and relevant government agencies. I can anticipate some of the actions that we are in the process of adopting and mention some that are already under way: In the energy sector, along with intensifying biofuels consumption, we will the auctions of renewable sources for electricity generation. We are also working to increase energy efficiency in electricity consumption. In the agricultural sector, we set the goal of restoring 15 million hectares of degraded pastures by 2030 and increasing 5 million hectares of crop-livestock-forest integration systems by 2030. Entrepreneurs in the Brazilian agricultural sector, which is the most dynamic sector in our economy in terms of job creation and exports, are supporting our actions under the Paris Agreement because they understand that their businesses depend on our success in tackling climate change globally. In the forestry sector, we have been working hard to reduce deforestation rates, which were out of control when we took over the government in June 2016. It is with great satisfaction that we recorded a 16% decline in deforestation in the Amazon between August 2016 and July 2017. In addition to combating deforestation, we also instituted a Native Vegetation Restoration Policy, with a goal to restore 12 million hectares by 2030. Among our priorities are: to expand Payments for Environmental Services, and to offer the populations that live in the forest economic alternatives that value the environment. I want to emphasize that tackling the climate issue is not just about reducing emissions. We have an equally important role in the area of adaptation. Adapting to these changes is a necessity for everyone: the individual, the community, the municipality, the region, each country. And this adaptation has a direct relationship with development: infrastructure adaptation, restoration of water sources and riparian forests, water management, prevention of landslides, droughts and floods, land use planning and forest firefighting - just to mention a few examples. We are promoting risk assessment and vulnerability studies to help local communities prepare properly for what is predicted to be the effect of global warming. We have a National Adaptation Plan with eleven priority areas, from preparation of coastal cities, combating drought in the semi-arid and adaptation based on ecosystems. Our vision goes well beyond the environmental perspective. In implementing the necessary public policies, we have paved the way for a new development project of the country, integrated to and conversing with the Sustainable Development Goals. The coordinated implementation of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 is inextricably linked to the responses to funding and resource mobilization needs. We have improved our national climate financing instruments. We are reshaping the National Climate Change Fund and creating new funds for forests and renewable energy, and we plan to expand funding for Low Carbon Agriculture. Moreover, the Amazon Fund has received important contributions from Norway and Germany in payment for REDD + results in the Brazilian Amazon. We are in the process of setting our priorities for the Green Climate Fund in a broad national debate on funding needs for our NDC. Our ambitious array of actions, whose implementation is fundamental for the global climate agenda, needs "green investments", with opportunities for mobilizing resources from all sources, in order to create the development model we want and need in the coming decades. We are preparing to take this path, in cooperation with the international community, under the aegis of the Paris Agreement. Thank you very much.