1 Brunei Darussalam National Statement High Level Event for COP22 / CMP12 Your Excellency, President of COP22/CMP12, Excellencies, Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, At the outset, on behalf of the Brunei Darussalam delegation, we would like to thank the Government and the People of Morocco for the warm hospitality and arrangement that has been extended to us since our arrival in this beautiful city of Marrakech. The recently enforced Paris Agreement is a momentous reflection of a global consensus and commitment for an urgent action on climate change. Brunei Darussalam is very pleased to be part of the realisation of this important global deal by joining the first few others in its ratification. Allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate all for this remarkable achievement. Although our contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions is, and will remain relatively small but we are committed to play our part to ensure that we can pass onto future generations a planet that is more inhabitable. The next key steps now would be to implement the Paris Agreement. COP22 comes in a very critical time, where we all convene just few days after the Paris Agreement is enforced. 2 On our part, we are currently reviewing our intended nationally determined contribution (INDC) which was submitted last November 2015 to explore whether we can further improve our long-term aspirations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our aspirational targets to de-carbonise our national economy includes the following:- • Firstly, to reduce our national energy intensity by 45 percent from 2005 levels by 2035; • Secondly, to increase the share renewable energy to at least 10 percent in the power generation mix by 2035; • And thirdly, to increase our protected forests from 41 to 55 percent of the total land area. During this period of review, we aim to align our policies and actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to improve resilience to climate change impacts with the defined timeline for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. While our intended contributions expressed in the INDC are to be realised in 2035, we are in the process of reviewing our sectoral development plans, and identifying short and medium terms policies and programmes related to energy efficiency, both on supply and demand-side, renewable energies and reforestation, as well as other programs related to climate change adaptation, that are congruent with the implementation timeline of the first and second cycles of the NDC under the Paris Agreement. 3 Excellencies, Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, The tasks to prepare our NDC implementation plan remains challenging. However, as we move forward, we will prepare transparent NDC implementation and investment plans and strengthen our capacities in adherence to the modalities, procedures and frameworks that will be adopted and/or endorsed at this 22nd Session of the Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC. Brunei Darussalam pledges its full support and active participation to make this new climate change agreement achieve its long term goal of limiting the global temperature rise of two degrees. Thank you.