1 National Statement to be delivered by H.E. Mr. Karma Tshering Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources Royal Government of Bhutan At the Resumed High -Level segment COP28/CMP18/CMA5, 9 December 2023 Dubai, UAE Mr. President Excellencies Distinguished Delegates Ladies and Gentlemen At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. President on your election as the President of COP28. On b ehalf of the Bhutanese delegation, I thank the Government of UAE for the coordination and warm hospitality. Our appreciation also goes to the UNFCCC Secretariat for the excellent conduct of the meetings. We have come with high expectations from COP28. F rom the first GST, we look to course correction on actions to limit the temperature rise below 1.5o celsius and bring about a step change in how we drive adaptation and the means of implementation. Bhutan welcomes the adoption of the establishment of the L oss and Damage Fund and calls for the adoption of a robust decision on the Framework for the Global Goal on Adaptation, here in Dubai. Under the visionary leadership of our King s, Bhutan has always demonstrated and continues to take global leadership in environmental stewardship and is among the first countries to pledge carbon neutrality. Let me take this opportunity to thank all our development partners in our journey and request for continued support for the smooth transition, as Bhutan prepares to gra duate from the LDC category. 2 Despite our efforts, as a highly vulnerable country in a fragile mountain ecosystem and a high dependence on climate -sensitive sectors, Bhutan is bearing the brunt of climate change at no fault of ours. We are witnessing incr easing occurrences of flash floods, landslides, and erratic rainfalls during the summer, while winter is getting warmer with disappearing water sources and snow. This affects the livelihoods of not just our communities but also threatens millions of liveli hoods in the communities downstream. The latest IPCC reports confirms that the slightest temperature rise will have detrimental effects on mountain regions, particularly the glaciers and cryosphere. Warming in mountain regions is several times faster tha n the global average, posing significant risks including Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF). Therefore, we reiterate our submissions on mountain issues including the call for a dialogue on mountains and climate change. In reaffirming our commitment, we h ave submitted our first National Adaptation Plan (NAP) including our first Adaptation Communication (ADCOM), LTS and elaborated our low emission development strategies (LEDS). In all these, we have considered interlinkages across sectors and synergies betw een adaptation and mitigation to ensure safeguarding and climate proofing our development efforts. At Dubai this week, Bhutan launched the National Carbon Registry and Bhutan Climate Fund that will facilitate its strategic entrance into the carbon market. 3 Mr. President While Bhutan welcomes the renewed hope of scaling up climate finance under your Presidency, we would like to reiterate that climate finance must be adequate, predictable, easily accessible, and sustainable based on the priorities and needs of the most vuln erable countries. Committed countries that have provided leadership in climate action must also be recognized. We call -on world leaders, investors, governments, multinational donors, International NGOs, and the private sectors to reinforce the much -needed climate finance commitments including the US$100 billion commitment by 2025. In conclusion, Bhutan remains committed to undertaking actions on climate change in line with the Convention and the Paris Agreement. We call upon all Parties to be flexible, ada ptable, open, and constructive to work collectively towards saving the planet from catastrophic disasters. We hope that COP28 will guarantee a smooth transition to actual implementation without any further delays. There is no better time than now to delive r the commitments. Thank you and tashi delek.