1 KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA Nation Religion King Statement to COP22 H. E. Mr. Say Samal, Minister of Environment, and Chair of the National Council for Sustainable Development, Head of the Cambodian Delegation, Marrakech, 1 6th November 2016  - Excellency Chair - Distinguished Heads of Delegations - Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen One year after our historic agreement in Paris, we are very pleased to be here in Marrakech to ensure this agreement is followed by concrete actions, and I would like to thank the Mo roccan government for host ing this 22nd Conference of the Parties. The pas t year progress (development) has been seen as encouraging signs. The threshold for entry into force of the agreement has been reached quickly, thanks to the momentum built in Paris and the continued commitment of all parties. In Cambodia, the agreement has been submitted to the Parliament and by the end of this year, we hope, it will be officially ratified. But it is too e arly to congratulate ourselves. We must keep that sense of urgency. We need concrete mechanisms to deliver on the Paris commitm ents and to track progress. That is what this COP is about. Any delay in implementation of the Agreement increases the costs of adaptation and reduces our chances to meet our global mitigation objective. Extreme climate events keep occurring more frequently and with more severity than before. 2016 is recorded as the hottest year, after already record -breaking years in 2014 and 2015. In dry season of t his year, Cambodia faced a drought of unprecedented 2 proportions, and the Royal Government had to intervene with emergency response by deliver ing water to local communities affected by the d rought. The share of our national budget allocated to climate expenditures is increasing steadily. Our first utility -scale solar farm will come online next year, and we are considering a series of measures to promote climate -smart investments, including the formulation of the “Environmental C ode”. Cambodia h as already started to deliver on its commitments. But we have always known that our full objectives can only be achieved if we get timely and adequate support from our partners. What we need as an LDC is to see better and faster access to international climate finance, technology transfers and capacity development support from developed countries. We hope that our work here will deliver the concrete implementation mechanisms that we need to ensure the global temperature increase will not exceed 2 degree Celsius by 2100. Thank you.