1 (Check against delivery ) President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE IN CANADA We are the first generation to broadly experience the impacts of climate change. We are the first generation to understand the solutions and have committed to each do our part. And as the IPCC 1.5 degree report (which we welcome) makes clear - we are the last generation to be able to act to prevent the worst impacts. Canadians know this. Les phénomènes météorologiques extrêmes sont plus nombreux, ils cau- sent des dégâts plus coûteux et ils sont plus dévastateurs pour les collectivités Canadiennes. In just the past few years floods in Calgary, Toronto and the Atlantic; a heat wave killing nearly a hundred people in Montreal; unprecedented forest fires throughout Canada; serious drought in Manitoba; and destructive tornadoes near my home town in Ottawa. We see climate change in the loss of habitat, species extinction, poorer air quality, easier disease transmission, and forced migration for millions of people around the world. These impacts are very real for people with serious financial, health and emotional effects. EVIDENCE BASED POLICY MAKING + PEOPLE Comme notre premier ministre Justin Trudeau l’a clairement indiqué, nous connaissons le pro- blème et les solutions. En tant que chefs de file, nous avons une responsabilité impo rtante envers nos citoyens quant à la prise de mesures ambitieuses pour assurer à tous un avenir plus sécuri- taire, plus sain et plus prospère. Nous pouvons le faire et nous le ferons. Et le Canada est déjà sur la bonne voie. 2 Working over a year with provinces and territories, Indigenous Peoples and with input with Ca- nadians, we developed an ambitious made -in-Canada climate plan. Starting next year, it will no longer be free to pollute, anywhere in Canada. It is now more obvi- ous than ever that pollution simply cannot be free if we want less of it. That is why we are put- ting a price on pollution from coast to coast to coast. And we are helping Canadians adjust to this new reality. It is critically important that as we take a people -centred approach by ensuring that life in a low-carbon economy is affordable. Many provinces and territories have risen to the challenge of pricing pollution. But where we have to act where provinces have not, we will im- plement pollution pricing that will provide every adult and every child a Climate Action Incen- tive. Pricing pollution is one of more than 50 measures Canada is taking at home to cut pollution. We are also eliminating coal-fired electri city, regulating pollution from the oil and gas sector, and investing in renewable energy and grid infrastructure to achieve our goal of 90% clean electricity by 2030. We are making historic investments in public transportation and green infrastructure. We are investing in energy efficiency so businesses and families can save money. We are also working with business and entrepreneurs to tap into the $26 trillion dollar global opportunity of clean technology. These are just a few of the ways we’re preparing for the future and creating good jobs in the process. We are also working to increase ambition at home and abroad. That is why we are committed to doubling the amount of nature that we protect which will help both mitigate and adapt to climate change. We are also developing a zero plastic waste strategy, which will reduce emissions and also tackle plastic pollution in our oceans and rivers. De plus, nous pouvons sans cesse peaufi- ner notre stratégie à long terme pour l’horizon 2050 visant à réduire la pollution et à créer une 3 croissance économique propre. Nous avons adopté une approche du type « Équipe Canada », qui appuie les mesures ambitieuses prises par les villes, les entreprises et les entrepreneurs, les peuples autochtones ainsi que les jeunes. Internationally, Canada and the United Kingdom launched the Powering Past Coal Alliance to help support countries to commit to phasing out of coal. We know we have to do this in a way that supports coal workers and coal communities, because the transition is not always easy. We also fostered other powerful multilateral initiatives like the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition and the Climate and Clean Air Coalition. At the centre of Canada’s clean growth plan is people. Each and every day, as an elected repre- sentative, I need to remember who I work for - moms and dads, kids, people working hard. The actions we take to tackle pollution need to also create tangible benefits for people - new jobs today and jobs for our kids; more affordable and convenient ways of getting to work; healthier air and cleaner water; and lower costs to power and heat our homes. WORKING TOGETHER / MULTILATERALISM Le Canada comprend la valeur du multilatéralisme. L’Accord de Paris est un exemple parfait où les pays ont uni leurs forces pour faire face au plus grand défi que la communauté internationale ait à surmon ter, soit les changements climatiques. Here in Katowice, we are at a turning point and it’s critical we keep up momentum. Canada is determined that we finalize a Paris Agreem ent Rulebook that will ensure the effective, ambitious and transparent implementation of the Paris Agreement. I am encouraged that all Parties have come to Katowice willing to make that happen. I believe that we can leave Katowice with a rule- book that will set clear guidelines on how we can implement our plans and send clear market 4 signals that drive clean innovation and clean growth, so that not only are we creating a safer fu- ture but a more prosperous one for our kids and grandkids. Il reste beaucoup de travail à faire pour atteindre le consensus que nous recherchons sur les éléments clés des règles de mise en œuvre, notamment en matière de transparence, de finance, de marché et d’ambition. On transparency we support time limited flexibility for countrie s that truly need it, understanding that some developing countries need capacity building support in order to accurately and trans- parently report their emissions. With respect to finance, Canada remains committed to delivering on its $2.65 Billion contrib u- tion. Over $1.2 Billion has been deployed to date. En ce qui concerne les règles relatives aux marchés, une section de l’Accord de Paris à laquelle j’ai personnellement eu la chance de contribuer, nous devons élaborer des règles crédibles et transparentes permettant de préserver l’intégrité de l’environnement. Il doit s’agir d’un système dont les pays voudront se servir par le truchement d’accords bilatéraux, ce qui signifie que ce système doit réduire le plus possible les obstacles transactionnels et financiers. Sur le plan de l’ambition, la solidarité doit être le mot d’ordre. Nous devons absolument pouvoir dire que tous les pays prennent des mesures réelles qui respectent un ensemble de règles communes. We know there is much work to be done. But we are confident a consensus based solution can be found. Quite frankly, we have no choice but to find the solutions. 5 Climate change is happening quickly and there’s not much time left to turn the ship. Right here, right now, in Poland the actions and consensus we reach will have a lasting impact on our ability to tackle climate change. We are all in this boat together. Let us act with urgency and integrity and foresight so that history may look back on us kindly and know that here, in Poland, we did what was necessary to set the course.