1 SPEAKING NOTES FOR THE HONOURABLE CATHERINE MCKENNA MINISTER OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE CANADA NATIONAL STATEMENT COP22 MARRAKECH, MOROCCO NOVEMBER 16, 2016 Check against delivery 2 Honorable Heads of State and Heads of Government, President of COP22, Honorable Ministers and Heads of Delegations, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and gentlemen: It is a privilege to speak to you on behalf of the Government of Canada. Here in Marrakech, our country’s delegation is engaging with the globa l community to advance the implementation of the Paris Agreement, and to continue the momentum of the past year. I am here with Canadian business es, provincial, territorial and municipal leaders as well as Indigenous peoples and youth. There is one parti cular delegate I want to introduce you to, because I am proud that one of our country’s young leaders is here with me. Maatalii Okalik is a young Inuit l eader currently earning her university degree in Human Rights and Political Science. She is the president of the Nationa l Inuit Youth Council in Canada within Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami, the Inuit representative organization. She is here because Canada believes that Indigenous Peoples, especially those from remote Northern communities like 3 Maatalii, mu st be part of the climate conversation and part of the climate solution. She is committed to providing on going advice and recommendations on our Canadian policies. One year ago, together, we reached a historic agreement on climate change. And, there is no turning back. It is clear from our discussions this week that we are globally mobilizing to implement the Paris Agreement. Governments, business es and investors are here and are ready to work with us. The global economy is shifting inexorably towards clea ner, more sustainable growth. The transition to a low -carbon economy is underway and, by necessity, is irreversible. Canada is committed to taking action to address climate change to foster a clean and inclusive economy that will provide good jobs that str engthen and expand the middle class. Since COP21, Canada has been active on the international front:  We supported the ambitious Montreal Protocol HFC phasedown amendment adopted last month in Kigali.  We are c o-chairing the Climate and Clean Air Coalition, working to reduce harmful short -lived climate pollutants.  We are i mplementing new measures to reduce emissions from aviation and shipping under the International Civil 4 Aviation Organization and International Marine Organization.  And we were among the early ratifiers of the Paris Agreement. At home, officials from all levels of Canadian government are working with Indigenous peoples, business leaders, citizens, youth and environmental organizations to develop a pan - Canadian framework for clean growth and cli mate change. This fall, the Government of Canada took a major step in the right direction, when we announced our plan for pricing carbon pollution. Under the plan, all Canadian jurisdictions will have a price on carbon in place by 2018. This is a huge oppo rtunity. When you price carbon, you create incentives to reduce pollution through innovation. That is why putting a price on pollution is one of the most effective ways to reduce emissions. In 2016, we also announced billions of dollars in investment for clean infrastructure, that will create jobs while addressing both adaptation and mitigation challenges in our communities. By supporting private sector innovation, we are investing in a cleaner future for our children and grandchildren, and creating 5 the r ight conditions for communities everywhere to create good jobs in a n inclusive cl ean global economy. Canada joined Mission Innovation in Paris and committed to double clean energy research and development investment by 2020. W ith these investments, pricing carbon pollution and other policies to drive demand, we will build Canada’s clean growth economy. And we are renewing our support to developing countries. I am pleased to announce th at Canada will invest $1.8 billion to significantly leverage pri vate -sector investment focused on clean and renewable energy solutions. Our efforts will help reduce investment risks and stimulate private investment in emerging markets. Canada’s support will help communities deal with the many impacts of climate change that disproportionately affect women, the poor and those who rely on agriculture to make a living. We will also support innovation and jobs and improve our capacity for adaptation and climate resilience. And this too will bring economic benefits not only t o developing countries but to economies around the world. In fact, the International Finance Corporation estimates that the Paris Agreement will help open up nearly $23 trillion in opportunities 6 for low-carbon investments in emerging markets between now and 2030. From this, we will all realize multiple benefits: fighting climate change, health benefits, empowerment of people, jobs, just to name a few. I believe in Canadian ingenuity. And I believe Canadian businesses can compete with the best in the world. I know business is part of the solution both in Canada and globally. The private sector, along with all levels of government, Indigenous Peoples and indeed all Canadians will unite to bring about the transition to a stronger, more sustainable economy and a better tomorrow for our children and grandchildren. Working together, we will set ourselves on a sustainable path for the future. If we make the right decisions now, future generations will have the opportunities they deserve :  A strong and diverse econom y  Healthy and dynamic communities  And a natural world, more beautiful than ever before. I am confident we will succeed.