Implementing the Paris Agreement, Consolidating Mutual Trust, Making Greater Contribution to Global Green and Low-carbon Development. --Statement by Mr. Xie Zhenhua, Special Representative on Climate Change Affairs of China at the HLS of Marrakech Conference on Climate Change 16" November 2016, Marrakech, Morocco Distinguished colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, China associates itself with the statement made by Thailand on behalf of the G77 and China. We thank our host, the Government and People of Morocco for their work in preparing this Conference. The Paris Agreement is a mile-stone achievement in the multilateral Process on climate change. The Marrakech Conference is an important occasion to celebrate the entry into force of the Agreement, as well as a Crucial starting point in the implementation of the package outcome of the Paris Conference. China stands ready to join all parties in making this conference a success. First, implementing the Paris Agreement and planning the future. Thanks to our collective efforts, the Paris Agreement enters into force as of the 4" of November. The speed with which the Agreement enters into force is not only a miracle in the global governance, but also a reflection of the overwhelming global trend towards green and low-carbon transition. We must take advantage of this positive momentum, scale up our actions, strengthen our cooperation, and contribute to the well-being of the whole mankind and of the future generations. China is ready to join all parties in drawing the plan for and following through various negotiations under the Paris Agreement in accordance with the Principles of equity, common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. At the same time, we call Second, honouring commitment and consolidating mutual trust. All parties should speed up the delivery of their pre-2020 commitments in order to build mutual trust as the basis for the post-2020 implementation of the Agreement and enhanced actions. Parties concerned must accelerate the ratification of the Doha Amendment on the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The developed countries must revisit and increase their emission reduction ambitions under the Convention or in the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. They must deliver on their commitments towards the developing countries in the areas of finance, technology and capacity building. China hopes that the Facilitative Dialogue on the pre-2020 actions can achieve substantive outcomes which will provide pragmatic and effective solutions to the pre-2020 enhanced actions on emission reduction, adaptation, finance, and technology. Third, increasing support and improving capacity. The developed countries must truly honour the commitment of providing 100 billion US dollars per year to the developing countries by 2020. They should further improve the roadmap on finance, and using the target of 100 billion US dollar per year as the basis, submit as soon as possible their post-2020 financial contribution and targets. Technological innovation will be the key to offset any future gap in the emission reduction ambitions. It is important to strengthen joint R&D and technology demonstration work. The developed countries should speed up the transfer of relevant technologies to the developing countries. This conference must arrive at a package outcome on capacity building aimed at improving the developing countries’ capacities in the areas of early-warning, disaster prevention and reduction, infrastructure, policy management, statistics and accounting, and access to finance, etc. The Chinese 80Vernment CONSiders jt 4 inherent requirement under China’s Own Sustainable development to address the climate Change and Shoulders its share of "esponsibility for the common destiny Of the human race, By 2015, the Per-unit Co2 Emissions of China’s GDP hag declineg by about 38% Over 2005, representing an Equivalent reduction in Co2 eMission of 4.1 billion tons, Non-fossit Energy accounted for as Much as 12% of Primary energy ang forest Stocks hag increase in Volume by Over 2.4 billion Cubic Metres,