Statement of Mr. Jan Ilavsky State secretary Ministry of Environment of the Slovak Republic At the COP 19, Warsaw, Poland, 21 November 2013 Mr. President, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, Firstly, let me express my sincere gratitude to the Government of Poland and especially to COP’s President Martin Korelec and his team for hosting this conference, which is this year located in our neighbouring country and close ally, Poland. Climate change is recognized for a long time as the most significant environmental challenge in front of us. Having organized the COP 19 in the region of Central and Eastern Europe, we would like to point out to this region's commitment to climate change problem. This region achieved the highest reduction rates in the last twenty years and at the same time achieved substantial GDP growth. Slovakia, similarly as Poland, has also achieved substantial reduction of green‐ house gas emissions without sacrificing our standard of living. Due to the ambitious environmental and climate legislation our emissions by 2011 decreased by almost 37% compared to the 1990 level hence GDP almost tripled since then. The 19th Conference of Parties in Warsaw had been perceived as the financial COP even before it has started and I have to say I strongly believe that parties will find fair solution acceptable for all. Though still facing financial constraints in public finance and significant wide‐ sectoral budgetary cuts made in the last years, Slovakia responsibly took its part in the fast start financing commitments and will continue its support and assistance for climate projects in developing countries in the years to come. Among others we are currently supporting for example adaptation projects combined with capacity building in Kenya and the South Sudan. Last year in Doha Slovakia committed itself to ratify the Kyoto Protocol's amendment as soon as possible and we are on the right track to fulfil that promise. At the same time we see this protocol only as a transitional mean towards a new global agreement built on the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities as well as fair and transparent participation of all major emitters. We all know that whatever reduction effort limited only to the Kyoto Protocol countries will not solve environmental, social and economic challenges we face. Therefore we urge everybody to commit diligently to the work of the ADP, which is the only relevant place to develop and reach a new agreement by 2015. Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let‘s take some inspirations from the achievements of Central and Eastern Europe made so far and let'`s strive all together to achieve our common goals and objectives by securing a sustainable future for all.