1 Statement by Nobuteru Ishihara, Japanese Minister of the Environment, at COP19/CMP9 Thank you, Mr. President. On beha lf of the government of Japan, I would like to express my sinc ere appr eciation to His Excellency, Minister Marcin Korolec and his government for hosting the COP 19 presidency. I would also like to expr ess my d eepest condolence to the people of the Philippines and other countries who have been suffering from the r ecent typhoon. Mr. President: A fair and effective framework with the participation of all countries needs to be adopted at COP 21 in 2015 to ensure emissions reduction at the global level. In this regard, Japan firmly supports the establishment of a post-2020 framework. Such a framework must be based on “nationally -determined” commitment and an effective international transparency mechanism. I will devote myself toward the s uccessful outcome at this COP19. Mr. President: The Great East Japan Earthquake and n uclear Power Plant’ s Accident in March 2011 caused drastic changes in the energy situations. Even under such circumstance both the public and private sectors of Japan have made utmost efforts to address climate change. Our greenhouse gas emissions for the first commitme nt period is forecasted to be 8.2 percent lower compared to the base year. 2 As a result, our target under the Kyoto Protocol of 6 percent reduction has been achieved. As the next step, Japan has set a target to reduce emissions by 3.8 percent compared to the 2005 level in 2020. This target may appear to be less ambitious. However, this is an ambitious target. It requires Japan to improve its ener gy efficiency by 20 percent when it is already at the world’s top level. This is a target for the time being. It was determined without taking into account the emissions reduction effect by nuclear power. Consideration is underway on energy policy. We will conduct further review in line with its progress. And then, a firm target will eventually be set. Japan will establish a low carbon society through various policy tools. We will strategically promote mitigation measures. We will enhance development and demonstration of renewable energy -related technologies such as offshore wind power, geothermal power and rechargeable batteries. Japan is hosting the IPCC session next March. Using that opportunity, we will launch a new public awareness campaign to further encourage low-carbon lifestyles. Mr. President: Japan reaffirms the goal to reduce emissions by 50 percent at the global level and by 80 percent in the developed world by 2050. 3 Now is the time for Japan to take “ Actions for a Cool Earth” as advocated by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. First, Japan will promote further technological innovation. In this context, Japan’s public and private sectors plan to invest a total of 110 billion US dollars domestically over the next five years. Second, Japan will promote the application of Japanese low-carbon technologies around the world. In so doing, we will contribute to global emission s reductions through the use of the Joint Crediting Mechanism, or JCM. Furthermore, Japan will strengthen its partner ships with countries and stakeholders. We will provide support to developing countries totaling 1.6 trillion yen, about 16 billion US dollars, during the 3-year period from 201 3 to 201 5. We will mobiliz e official development assistance, other official flows, and private finance in the field of mitigation and adaptation. Tokyo has been selected as the host of the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics. Through the Olympic Games, we will demonstrate to the world a society with low carbon foot print, a society in harmony with nature and a society based on sound material cycle. Thank you for your kind attention.