Statement by Mr. Ville Niinistö, Minister of the Environment of Finland at the 19th Conference of Parties of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and CMP9 of the Kyoto Protocol 20 November 2013, Warsaw, Poland Distinguished Mr. President, Dear Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen I would like to start by thanking our hosts here in Warsaw for their hospitality and the excellent facilities. Ladies and Gentlemen The new results of the IPCC regarding scientifi c basis of climate change leave no room for hesitation. The direction is clear in order to achieve our common 2 degrees goal. We need to raise the ambition level before 2020. At the same time we have to create a credible pathway towards a low -carbon planet with ambitious post - 2020 emission redu ction targets. While glaciers are melting our children all around this planet are not helped by a blame -game. Instead we have to create a positive cycle of action. Those who are economically strong, need to help others and show leadership in clean solutio ns. But all emissions count, all carbon sinks help. We are all in this together. Mr. President We have not just two COP -conferences before Paris - we have two whole years to put in good use. We need to be able to make decisions that speed up the process of harnessing adequate action - all the way until Paris. Warsaw needs to deliver the foundation for the 2015 Paris agreement. All countries need to start preparing their national commitments. We need those commitments in 2014. We need to have enough time to assess the joint ambition of our concerted effort before the conference in Paris. For example how is the land sector part of the commitment? How will the markets be used as part of it? Every solved issue helps our task in Paris. As we are clearing the way for the new agreement, we also have to raise the ambition level before 2020. The emissions gap will not disappear suddenly in 2020. We are expected to act instead of waiting for seven more years. Every new fossil -fuel-fired power plant and every new bu ilding that wastes energy will make our task more difficult in the coming decades. We also need to find ways to increase carbon sinks and reduce emissions in the land sector. Smarter technologies and solutions exist and are cheaper than ever - all countrie s benefit from access to smart and inclusive growth. Mr. President Finland realizes the urgent need to commit both at home and abroad. Our climate financing to developing countries cover both climate mitigation and adaptation. Finland implemented its 110 million euro commitment to developing countries in the fast start period through the net increase of climate funding. We now expect our total public climate finance in 2014 to nearly double compared to our average during past three years. The budget for 2 014 includes an unprecedented 93 million euros of climate financing. On top of that Finland has decided to channel all our revenues from the EU’s emission trade scheme to international development including climate activities. We are ready to contribute o ur fair share to the Green Climate Fund during next year. We give 5 million euros to the Adaptation Fund in addition to the increased annual contribution of 8 million to the Least Developed Countries Fund and Special Climate Change Fund. Domestically Finl and is already reducing its emissions by 2020 according to the prevailing EU legislation. This year the government started drawing a long -term energy and climate road map with a view to cut emissions 80 – 95 % by 2050 from 1990 levels. The Finnish governme nt is also preparing to introduce an overarching national climate act to enhance climate change mitigation and adapt ation. Finland also continues its international commitment to promote gender equality as an essential part of both climate change mitigati on and adaptation. Mr. President People around the world are taking action, they are worried. I am worried. The science has shown us that the pathway to a carbon neutral society is possible, but there is no pathway if there are no people who make decisions and take action. Our role here is to carry the process towards an ambitious agreement in Paris. Dear friends, in this football stadium, I think i t is high time that we stop time -wasting against each other and realize that we are on the same side. The only way we can win is that we start to play towards the same goal. I thank you.