STATEMENT MADE BY H.E. MR. TESFAI GHEBRESELASSIE SEBHATU MINISTER OF LAND WATER AND ENVIRONMENT THE STAE OF ERITREA AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGEMNT SESSION OF UNFCCC COP19 / CMP9 WARSAW, POLAND 20/11/2013 Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished del egates, Ladies and gentlemen I take the hono r to make this statement on beha lf of the delegation of Eritrea. At the outset I would like to join previous speakers to express my delegation’s appreciation to the government and people of Poland for hosting COP19/CMP9 and for the kind hospitality given to us since arrival in th is beautiful and heroic city of Warsaw. Mr. President our planet is encountering very critical climate challenges. Urgent issue as they are, these challenges have been discussed at international level for quite a long time now ; but without the final outcome that all should cherish. In light of the formi dable peril, if not existential challenges, that unfettered climate change has already entailed and as science has predicted with great confidence, will inevitably entail to poste rity, my delegation is worried by the overall inadequate response of the human family. We would like to note that inadequate mitigation ambition and action to maintain global temperature rise below what is confir med as the limit by science as well the delayed implementation of already concluded agreements underscored by lack of political will and commitment of the countries that can really make a differenc e to save our planet from the perilous path to obliteration, as well as the co mplicated and dragging process of the negotiation, to which all of us seem to get used, are no source of consolation and confidence building. However, knowing there is no other safe alternative for all countries, we cannot but still ins ist to push and hope for a fair, ambitious and equitable final outcome under the Convention in accordance with its principles that will include mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation. My delegation reiterates Eritrea’s firm position that the UNFCCC and KP constitute the fundamental global legal instrument on climate change regime and calls for the High Level S egment of COP19/CMP9 here in Warsaw to;  underline the dire need for enhancing and inseparably linking adaptation and mitigation action s and ambition s to be embodied both in the pre and post -2020 work -streams with full account of the means of implementat ion and in conformity with the principles of the Convention;  build on and stre ngthen existing arrangements unde r the Green Climate Fund and to move the Fund from mere operationalsion to capitalization with clear and defined sources and channels towards 2020;  establish a rrangements f or putting commitments forward to enable ex-anti information for all elements of the ADP;  pave the ground work for short, medium and long term global goal s that include enhanced ambitious mitigation commitments by Annex 1 Parties through mitigation numbers based on s cience, equity, CBDR - RC and agreed upon robust MRV mechanisms ;  urge d eveloped country parties to s upport address ing loss and damage through appropriate global and national institutional arrangements, including other special needs and concerns of LDCs;  call upon Annex 1 Parties that are not under taking commitments under KP2 to undertake commitments with enhanced ambitions ;  insist on developed country parties to provide new and additional resources to the climate funds under the Convention which are adequate, predicta ble, sustainable and accessible; and  encourage all parties to fulfill their commitments under the framework of the anticipated comprehensive 2015agreement under the Convention. I thank you.