Government of Niue Statement By Hon. Dion Paki Taufitu, Associate Minister of Meteorology, Niue Island at the Nineteenth session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 19) and the Ninth Session of Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP 9), Warsaw, Poland, 21 Dec 2013. Your Excellency, President of COP19, Excellencies and Distinguished Delegates, Greetings, Fakaalofa Lahi Atu. Mr President, A wise man, King Solomon once said, ‘Where there is no vision, people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he’. Let us work together in the hope that we reach a global climate agreement in 2015 and beyond. We must stand in boldness and in one spirit to fulfil our obligations to the Convention and Kyoto Protocol. Ultimately, we must also have the political will to commit and reach our vision. Mr President, we stand side by side with AOSIS and partners in calling for an international mechanism to address Loss and Damage for the most vulnerable countries. We call on developed countries to commit and pledge scaled-up long term deveioping countries. [ne Global Climate Fund also needs to be operationalized and adequately resourced as soon as possible. Where there is a vision, people prosper. Mr President, Niue’s long term vision is to become carbon neutral in the future. Our carbon emissions are minute, yet we are also taking effective actions to mitigate and adapt to climate change with limited resources. We acknowledge the continuous support of the UNEP-GEF towards the completion of our Second National Communication and subsequent national communications in order to achieve our obligation under the Convention. Niue appreciates regional, bi-lateral and multilateral assistance that has enabled climate change related projects and its implementation. Mr President, on behalf of the Premier of Niue, its government and people, we express our sincere condolences to the people of the Phillipines, Palau and Micronesia for the tragedy they face in dealing with the impacts resulted by Typhoon Hayan. In closing, my delegation is grateful to you and the Government of Poland for hosting the COP19 and wishes you success on your presidency. [END]