we eee eee By HE. Xie Zhenhua, Head of Delegation, Vice Chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, People’s Republic of China Nov 20, 2013 Mr. President, Dear Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of the Chinese government, I would like to thank the Government and the people of Poland for their hard work to host our conference in Warsaw and their historic contribution. China fully associates itself with the Statement made by Fiji on behalf of G77 and China. Since the beginning of this year, the world has been hit by frequent extreme weather events, which have posed a grave threat to the living environment of hundreds of millions of people and caused tremendous economic losses. The scientific assessment contained in the Working Group I report of the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report released last September further reveals the authenticity of global warming and the urgency in addressing the challenge of climate change. Science and reality have shown us that climate change has become a real and severe threat to sustainable development, and that all countries should work hand in hand to tackle it through sincere cooperation. In this connection, I would like to make the following four points: I. Stick to the Convention and identify clear target. The UNFCCC represents a common commitment of all Parties to address climate change through cooperation. The principles of equity, CBDR and respective capabilities are our common guidelines for action. Five years ago, we gathered together in Poznan and the negotiation process of Bali Roadmap set sail. Five years later when we meet again in Warsaw, the Bali process has taken in sail with certain gains. It is up to us to make concerted efforts and translate the outcomes of past COP/CMP meetings into actions, and turn the Warsaw Conference into a meeting of Implementation. Il. Fulfill commitment and enhance mutual trust. Funding is the key to the success of Warsaw Conference. It is the foundation and precondition for developing countries’ ee gg ge gg day davalanment and countries must fulfill all their past funding commitments, in particular they should ensure that the funds for 2013/2015 be no less than the fast-start fund, There should be a clear roadmap for providing 100 billion USD each year by 2020. The Green Climate Fund must be capitalized as soon as possible with public finance as the major source to avoid any funding gap in 2013 and beyond. IIL Increase ambition and deliver hope. Mitigation ambition directly impacts the effectiveness of actions to address climate change, and targets in the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol are the scale to measure the ambition of emission cutting. The Warsaw Conference should urge all Parties, especially developed country parties to ratify as soon as possible the Amendment to the second commitment period, and at the same time to launch the review process in order to further raise mitigation ambition. Other developed countries should also raise their emission-cutting commitments in a comparable manner under the Convention. According to research, if developed countries followed the requirement of science by increasing their emission-cutting targets to 40% by 2020, the so-called gap in emission-cutting effort would no longer exist. This should be the direction of our efforts. IV. Make preparation for pragmatic progress. In the past two years, the Parties have effectively exchanged their views in the ADP and established the guiding position of the Convention principles and put in place an initial plan for the negotiation process. This is a good beginning. We should now start the formal negotiation under the Durban Platform on the various pillars of mitigation, adaptation, funding and technology in a balanced fashion, in line with the decisions of Durban and Doha and the principles and provisions of the Convention. We must plan well the negotiation for next year and beyond, so as to lay a right foundation for next step of substantive negotiations and to send a positive signal to the international community in order to secure an agreement by 2015. Ladies and Gentlemen, China is the world’s biggest developing country with a large population and unbalanced regional development. As China is still in the process of industrialization and urbanization, it is faced with huge challenges of economic development, poverty eradication, improving people’s wellbeing, as well as addressing climate change. In spite of difficulties in the economy, the Chinese Government spares no effort to control air pollution, actively tackle climate change and makes pains-taking efforts to fulfill its commitment to the international community. Over the past 8 years, China’s 2 energy consumption per GDP unit has dropped by 26.4%, which represents an energy saving of 980 million tons of standard coal or 2.35 billion tons of CO2 emission cuts and a 28% drop in carbon intensity. The share of non-fossil fuels in our primary energy mix is 9.6%. The size of renewable energy ranks among the first in the world. The growing stock of forests is up by 1.723 billion cubic meters, exceeding our target of 1.3 billion. We’ve made our utmost contribution to the world in tackling climate change. Since 2012, China has taken a series of new actions to address climate change, with two major events taking place this year. The first is the launch of the National Low Carbon Day for the first time, whose aim is to mobilize the whole society to participate in actions to address climate change and practice a green and low carbon consumption mode and way of life. The second is the inauguration of the Shenzhen Carbon Exchange-- a pilot project, which signals a major step forward in China’s carbon market development. While working hard domestically, we in China have also actively carried out South-South cooperation in addressing climate change. Between 2011 and 2013, China has provided 10 million USD each year in support of capacity building in other developing countries, including 28 training courses for 800 government officials and technicians from 114 nations, the donation of more than 900,000 energy-efficient lights, 10,000 energy-efficient air conditioners and 6000 units of household solar power generators to 12 developing countries. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the way to 2020, China will continue to step up its effort to tackle climate change, and make sure that the commitment of reducing CO? emission per GDP unit by 40-45% from 2005 level will be fulfilled in 2020. We are now carrying out internal consultations and analysis for further enhanced actions, and will continue to work tirelessly in order to contribute to the post 2020 global efforts in addressing climate change. Following the principles of transparency, inclusiveness, party-driven process and consensus through consultation, China will continue to play a positive and constructive role together with all other Parties to support the Government of Poland in order to achieve a successful outcome in Warsaw. Thank you!