BOSN IA AND HER ZEGOVINA Minist ry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations STATEMENT Her Excellency, Srebrenka Golić, Minister for Physical Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology with in the Republic of Srpska Government the 19th Conferen ce of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP1 9) Warsaw, Poland, Novemb er 2013 2 Your excellencies, presidents, prime ministers, distinguished delegates of COP19, ladies and gentlemen, It is my great honour and pleasure to have the opportunity to gr eet you on behalf of the delegation from Bosnia and Herzegovina on th is occasion of organising one of the most important conferences, where discussions are held on climate change, one of the largest environmental and socio -economic problems of the present times. I feel a great need to thank the host country Poland for excellent organisation of the Conference as well as the UNFCCC Secretariat for the efforts that they put in to ensure that the organisation of this rather demanding gathering flows in the bes t possible order. We h ope that the agreements made on this CO P will bring concrete results that will lead us to the best solution s of the problems caused by the climate change. As a country situated in the region of South Europe, an extremely sensitive and vulnerable region in terms of the climate change, we have shown that we want to play an active role in the fight against climate change through fulfilment of our responsibilities under the Convention. We have produced the second National Communication on climate change under the UNFCCC as well as the Strategy for low -carbon development and adaptation to the climate change. At the moment we are implementing activities on producing the biennial updat ed report on the GHG emission, the so -called BUR – biennial update report). The economy of our country is not at the level that we could respond to the climate change challenges ourselves, which is why we are welcoming the activities that lead to clear functioning of global financial institutions, such as the Green Climate Fund. Cooperation with the European Union is a part of our everyday activities during which we endeavo ur to carry out responsibilities expected from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of fight against climate change as soon as possible. We would also like to use this opportunity to point out that we are welcoming efforts and supporting activities of the European Union in the negotiations process. We would like to point out that the disasters happening in the world, carry a message with them on the necessity to turn the society towards renewable sources of energy which will ultimately result in low-carbon production, green economy and a very well controlled GHG emission s. We are convinced that new projects and programmes will be initiated u pon completion of this gathering, which will provide possibilities for all the stakeholders to find their interests and participate in implementation of these projects. We want to believe that we will leave Warsaw content with what has been done and send a clear message to the world that in the spirit of consensus we have made progress which is leaving enough space for each country, bearing in mind the humankind needs, to continue moving towards accomplishing complete success in reducing the green house effects through implementation of national goals. Thank you.