1 Speech of Md. Shafiqur Rahman Patwari Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh Warsaw COP, 19 High Level Segment Mr. President Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen Good afternoon to yo u all! Allow me, Mr. President, at the outset to express, on behalf of the people of Bangladesh and her government and on my own personal behalf, sincere gratitude to the Polish people and the government for inviting us to this Conference of Parties on Cl imate Change and for the excellent arrangements that you have made for all of us. I also express my gratitude to the people of Warsaw who has welcomed us with warm hearts. The polish people have endured many difficult periods in their history. In Warsaw, we deeply acknowledge their resilience and valor demonstrated during those difficult periods in history. I am confident, Mr. President, under your able leadership, at this COP, we will come out with successful accomplishments. Mr. President, As we reache d Poland, we heard the tragic tale of devastation following the Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. We, in Bangladesh, know it all very well what devastation such a powerful cyclonic storm can leave in its wake. And, 2 our heart goes out to those who lost the ir lives, dear ones and possessions and still continue to suffer in the Philippines. Mr. President, Bangladesh has created the framework for adaptation and mitigation actions by preparing Bangladesh Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan in 2009. We internalized th e Strategy within our current five year Plan, creat ing two dedicated Funds : one with domestic resources to the tune of US$ 385 million ; and, another with funds from the development partners. Every Ministry uses its own funds for climate relate d investments for adaptation, mitigation and capacity -buildings as much as possible. These activities include in case of mitigation, for instance, one of the fastest growing solar home systems in the world as well as solar irrigation systems, construction and maintenance of multipurpose cyclone shelters throughout the country, mostly in the coastal areas. We are also creati ng green belt along the coast through massive coastal aforestation. Across the Government, we are making all development initiatives climate -smart by retrofitting, redesigning and introduction of new designs. You would be happy to learn that Bangladesh is the fourth countr y globally to have completed the ratification of the second amendment to the Kyoto Protocol – just on 13th November. Mr. President, This year, the Carbon Di Oxide (CO2) concentration in the atmosphere has crossed 400 ppm. The upward trend in temperature is continuing unabated while oceans, the largest ecosystem, on earth, has experienced 3 unprecedented warming up at mu ch greater depths than before. All these will destabilize the climate further all over the globe. No country will be spared. Yet, we see little sense of urgency among many Parties. As we delve deeper on Loss and Damage discussions in Warsaw, we see little recognition that land -based agriculture and food security is under severe, direct and most visible threat from climate change. As we see in Bangladesh, one of the active -most delta, our cropping, livestock, fisheries – all are coming under complex and imminent risks and vulnerabilities. In spite of much gains we made in decades, climate change pose challenges.. We would thus stress that all Parties in Warsaw must pronounce on this cluster robustly. For us, it is about our existential threat and indeed s urvival. Mr. President, Loss and Damage is passing a critical stage to take off. We were confident about establish ment of an institutional mechanism, as we all agreed in Doha Gateway. For most vulnerable countries like Bangladesh, it is beyond a matter of choice !And, we want to see the Warsaw Mechanism on Loss and Damage established in this COP. On ADP, we appreciate the latest draft decision text from the co-chairs. All our countries must put greater emphasis on the importance of capturing progress in the decision text, in Warsaw, including pronounc ing on a set of clear d eliverables going to Lima. Indeed, all these will have to be based on the ‘principles’ and ‘provisions’ of the Convention, with all countries contributing respective bit. Bangladesh would call upon all countries to raise their post -2020 ambitions. But, whatever the respective national paths are, globally the road map must be commensurate with what is demanded by 4 science for a 1.5 degree or a lower rise in temperature by 2100 as we pledg ed to review in 2017 its feasibility. As the most -climate vulnerable country, we would ask that the COP make due progress by 2014 on the key elements, within an agreed time frame and road map – so that in Paris, we adopt the new legally-binding agreement. Mr President, Finance is a key consideration where we must have concrete decision. We must have full and effective capitalization of Green Climate Fund, at the earliest. In the short term, during the pre -2020 period, enhanced financial support of the Annex I Parties to the LDC Fund, Special Climate Change Fund and also to the Adaptation Fund are crucial for implementation of Adaptation and mitigation actions in developing countries, especially the LDCs. On Development and Transfer of Technology, the existing Technology Mechanism s need to be fully operational without delay. And, the N ationa lly- Designated Entities in LDCs need to be provided with capacity building support to make them fully operational. Mr President, An equitable regime of protecting t he global commons through a global real politik -based approach, being mindful of our sovereignty, rather than through the centuries’ -old Westphalian lens, should be our ultimate objective. Unless we can get over with the old and narrow perspectives of 5 defining ‘national interests’, we can never materialize the agreed upon universal regime by end -2015. The failure to do so will surely make the costs in terms of human lives, misery and livelihood infinitely prohibitive. We certainly do not wish to be fau lted by our posterity for that. Let that be our resolve in Warsaw. Let us pledge to deliver on that promise, fully. Thank you Mr. President and the Excellencies.