1 SEYCHELLES STATEMENT Delivered by Ambassador Ronald Jumeau At the High Level Segment of COP19 / CMP9 Warsaw, Poland 21 November2013 Mr. President, Climate change is by far the biggest impediment to the efforts of Seychelles, our fellow Small Island Developing States, and indeed all countries to achieve sustainability. The Post‐2015 Development Agenda will be a pathway to failure, and the Sustainable Development Goals will certainly not be sustainable, if we do not take the action required against climate change. There can be no security for humankind ‐ no food security, no water security, no energy security, and no human security ‐ without climate security. The closing days of COP19 have been marked by a gross lack of will to adequately reduce greenhouse gas emissions and provide climate financing. We must focus even more urgently on the need for tangible global action based on the now undeniable science, rather than on national perceptions of gains and losses. 2 This is why, Mr. President, Seychelles joins AOSIS in calling for, at the very least, two key asks in the Warsaw outcome : an ambitious work plan for ADP Workstream 2 and an international mechanism for Loss and Damage, which goes beyond adaptation as we know it. Such is the importance of Workstream 2 for AOSIS that we remain the only countries to have put forward a concrete and transformational proposal that will help change how action against climate change is talked about in future. Addressing loss and damage is even more crucial after the devastation Super Typhoon Haiyan wreaked on the people of the Philippines, to whom we extend our sympathies and solidarity. Hardly anyone here mentioned that Haiyan hit two AOSIS members, the Federated States of Micronesia and Palau, prior the Philippines. We shudder to think what Haiyan would have done to Micronesia and Palau had it hit them with the same force as it did the Philippines. The loss and damage to those small islands could have reached the scale of a total wipeout. Mr. President, It is sad to end by saying that unless the negotiations take a late and drastic turn for the better; this COP will be especially remembered for two things. The first is the shocking backsliding on emissions targets by some major developed country emitters which are among those most responsible for climate change. The second is the paucity of effort in providing the funding which the most vulnerable, the weakest and the poorest of this world now need even more desperately as a result of such backsliding, which, incomprehensibly, comes at the dawn of the age of the super typhoon. I thank you for your attention.