1UNFCCC COP19 High Level Statement (MALTA) Minister Leo Brincat (Minister for Sust ainable Development, the Environment and Climate Change) 21 November 2013 Mr / Madame President, Ministers, Disti nguished guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, I feel particularly honoured to participate at this 19th Conf erence of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in this beautiful and historical city of Warsaw: a city that has stood strong des pite the various challenges it has faced throughout the centuries. I would like to start by thanking the Government and the people of Poland for the impeccable organisation and the formidable hospitality shown to our delegation at this Conference. Mr / Mme President, The latest findings of Working Group I of the IPCC, as well as the recent tragedy which struck the Philippines, highlight, more than ever, the urgent need for solidarity within the international community to address this global challeng e. The principle of Solidarity must manifest itse lf through our work at this Conference. We must send a clear signal that the internat ional community means business: that we are on track to take the necessary measures to tackle clim ate change. [I take this opportunity to express the sincere condolences on behalf of the people of the Republic of Malta to the people of the Philippines.] Mr / Mme President, This year marks the 25th anniversary sinc e Malta’s initiative for a UN General Assembly resolution on the conservation of climate as part of the common concern of mankind. We must commit ourselves to achieve by 2015, a glo bal legally binding agreement, applicable to all, securing goo d governance for this unprecedented threat facing humankind. There is no more time for procrastination. 2Momentum for action is often stalled by im mediate concerns related to national or regional events. In actual fact however, it is becoming increasingly clear that, as Commissioner Hedegaard stated on Tuesday, the threats posed by climate change have now moved to the centre of the debate on economic policy. Human tragedies, such as those related to mi gration in the Mediterranean this year, will continue to escalate as the impacts of climate change act as a threat multiplier, particularly in the most vulnerable regi ons. Climate vulnerability spreads beyond latitudes and therefore the global community must provide the necessary actions to ensure climate resilience. These events motivate us further to wo rk towards achieving an effective global legally binding agreement. To get there we need an outco me at this Warsaw Conference which sets us on the right track towards the 2015 Agreement. We mu st establish a process for all Parties to formulate ambitious mitigation commitmen ts, including a timetable to prepare their proposed commitments in 2014. We must leave Warsaw with the elements for a draft negotiating text, to be available for the Lima Conference. I therefore emphasise the gr eat importance of ensuring progress under the ADP here an d in the coming months. Mr / Mme President The 2015 agreement must ensu re the participation of all Parties under the Convention and also include co mmitments from all. The colle ctive level of ambition should be informed by science and consis tent with the below 2°C objective. Responsibilities and capabilities are diffe rentiated but evolve over time. The agreement should therefore reflect these evolvi ng realities by including a spectrum of commitments in a dynamic way. Mr / Mme President As a small island state in the Medite rranean, a Member State of the European Union, and an Annex I Party to the Convention, Malta reiterates its commitment to 3sustainable development. Malta recognises that the key for climate action is better governance: synergies are created by lin king different sectors and actors. Malta is proud to state that, together with the EU and its Member States, we are already implementing our commitments under the second commitment period to the Kyoto Protocol as of 1 January 2013. Following the adoption of its national mitigation and adaptation strategies, Malta is fully committed to shifting to cleaner sour ces of energy. Malt a is also currently preparing a national Green Economy Strategy with a vi ew to creating an enabling environment that promotes the transition to wards a more resource efficient and low carbon economy. These efforts have been inspired by the value of mainstreaming climate change policy and action in all se ctors of economic and social policy. As we share our national experiences, wh atever the scale, we are committed to continuing to build global and regi onal capacity for climate action. Mr / Mme President, The Warsaw Conference is an opportunity we cannot afford to miss. We must all apply our best efforts to achieve a positiv e outcome. This will help us, here and now, to determine the future we make for ourselves and for generations to come.