COP 19 Warsaw 2013 National Statement Minister of Climate and Environment, Ms Tine Sundtoft, Norway Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, We have come to Warsaw to tend to the world’s most urgent business: To limit global warming. This year, the Polish government, and the city of Warsaw, are our hosts. Let me convey my most sincere thanks for your kind hospitality and excellent leadership of the conference. I took office only a few weeks ago - as Norway's first Climate and Environment minister. Our Government will base its policies on the responsibility to safeguard the planet and on the precautionary principle. The earth we pass on to our children shall be in at least as good a state as it was when we inherited it. Less than two months ago, the International Panel on Climate Change launched the first part of the Fifth Assessment Report. Science has spoken: Human influence on the climate system is clear. If we fail to act, we cannot blame lack of information. Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres (utt: figeres) recently spoke to journalists about the impact of global warming. The lack of a global agreement on climate, she said, would be condemning future generations before they are even born”. I agree. We need a generation perspective on what we are doing today. Norway will do its part of the work. On the one hand: Enhanced action before 2020, On the other: Commitment to reduce global emissions from 2020 and beyond. My ambition is to strengthen our domestic climate action plan for 2020. We will speed up action in the following areas: - First of all, support to climate friendly technology. - Secondly, cost efficient deployment of the Carbon Capture and Storage technology. OB RAEN RAADRABAT 9 Et AE NNER ENE Norway also supports a number of international initiatives to enhance action before 2020. Our biggest contribution is efforts aimed at preventing deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries.. Furthermore, Norway supports the reduction of short-lived climate pollutants, also financially. The 2015 agreement should contain the numbers. | trust Warsaw will be a real “kick-off” for a process where all countries prepare to put forward national pledges during 2014. When state leaders meet with the United Nations General Secretary Ban-Ki Moon in September next year, we need to show that we have done our homework. Many ask: how can we be ambitious on climate at a time when our economy is struggling? How to secure space for development while taking climate action? It cannot be a question of either achieving growth or tackling global warming. It must be both. The consequences of climate change will undermine development gains in many countries, if we don’t step up action. We need to stimulate research, technology development and industries to invest in solutions for the future. (A new legally binding instrument could provide the necessary predictability to governments, businesses and investors.) The next two years is a time for bold decisions by governments. Again, I wish to quote Christiana Figueres. “We have achoice....... A choice to change the future we are going to give our children.” I could not agree more.