The Republic of Uganda HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE 19TH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND 97H SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES, SERVING AS A MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL, 11™ NOVEMBER TO 22°94 NOVEMBER 2013; WARSAW, POLAND, STATEMENT BY PROF. EPHRAIM KAMUNTU MINISTER OF WATER AND ENVIRONMENT AND HEAD OF THE UGANDA DELEGATION TO COP19/CMP9 19TH NOVEMBER 2013 Heads of Delegations Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. President, Let me begin by expressing my sincere gratitude for the warm hospitality extended to me and my delegation by the Government and the people of Poland as well as the beautiful City of Warsaw. We commend Poland for the excellent arrangements and for steering the negotiations in an open, transparent and highly inclusive manner. Uganda associates herself with the statements delivered by Nepal on behalf of the Least Developed Countries, Swaziland on behalf of the African Group and Fiji On Behalf of G77+China. Mr President, As a witness to extreme climate calamities that many countries are now facing, Uganda has come to Warsaw with hope and determination to engage constructively in the current negotiations towards a desired outcome. The fifth Assessment Report, released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate change (IPCC), and Africa’s Adaptation Gap technical report by UNEP are very clear. Both predict that the impacts of climate change will lead to more flooding, famine, drought and disease which shall have negative impacts for millions of people. Mr President In this context Uganda is no exception as we have continuously witnessed the extreme weather events resulting in landslides in the eastern part of the country. We experience unending flooding in the highland ecosystem of the Rwenzori Mountains emanating from the slow onset events of temperature rise and glacial melting. In the Cattle Corridor ecosystem, drought is escalating, leading to frequent bouts of famine. These experiences of both extreme weather and the slow onset climatic In view of the situation of excessive flooding with landslides and intense famine, which we in Uganda have faced over the past couple of years, we take the IPCCC and the Africa Adaptation Gap technical report warning seriously. Uganda’s concern is not limited to our own vulnerability. We are equally concerned about the threat that climate change poses to the more vulnerable countries of Africa and the Asian region as well as the LDCs and the Small Island States and in particular, the most recent Typhoon Hayan that ravaged the Philipines! We need therefore to be assured, Mr President, that we all remain committed to ensuring an outcome that prioritises our needs. The IPCC report suggests that it is not too late to prevent the worst impacts of climate change, if we agree to act now - and Warsaw must demonstrate this by acting now! The cost of inaction is unimaginable Mr President Uganda strongly supported and welcomed the outcomes of the past COPs - the Cancun Agreements, the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action and the Doha Work Program - in earnest hope that we should have a favourable outcome here in Warsaw, as we move toward 2015. I therefore urge parties to show flexibility in evolving agreements to make this conference a landmark in our strong desire to meet the challenges posed by climate change. Mr President Under your able leadership and guidance, Uganda looks forward to a favourable, balanced and equitable agreement in Warsaw which ensures completion of the Bali road map. In this regard the following decisions are critical: Here in Warsaw we must be able to move the Green Climate Fund into its operational phase. The annual $100 billion that was committed to, as climate finance, needs to be understood in the context of real need and to be effected. Mr President The 2013 Uganda National Climate Change Policy and its implementation strategy indicate that we shall need over 4 billion US dollars in the coming years in order to move toward a green low carbon development path. This can only be made feasible if the Green Climate Fund is operationalized! Additionally at the global level, the International Energy Agency IEA has confirmed that we shall need a yearly investment of $1 trillion into clean energy and resilient infrastructure to transform our economy. This therefore demonstrates that Uganda’s need for climate financing as an addition to the ordinary development financing is an issue of emergency imposed by the fact that we are most affected by climate change as noted in the IPCCC reports. This is a daunting challenge to which we expect the negotiations that are being prepared in Warsaw to agree on how to address.. The extreme events that I have highlighted above put a spotlight on loss and damage caused by climate change, and the need for resources to help us in Uganda attain green development. COP 18 in Doha made a breakthrough by mandating this COP19 to set up “institutional arrangements” such as a mechanism on loss and damage. Since Doha, we have held discussions including on understanding future needs and on how to address slow onset events. Our focus now should be on setting up an international loss and damage mechanism as a key component of the arrangements to include key issues of the functions of the mechanism, the modalities of performing the functions, and the financing. Mr President With respect to the Durban Platform, I do recall that in Doha Parties reiterated their will to attain an effective 2015 agreement and to close the gap between our collective ambition and the demands of science. Further in Doha, Parties also identified themes, and agreed to focus the work of 2013 toward the agreement through implementation of work stream 1 and 2. In Warsaw, we need to further clarify the elements to be included in the draft agreement that should be ambitious, balanced and clear for consideration in Lima in 2014. Mr President In terms of adaptation to impacts of climate change, Uganda continues to pilot the National Adaptation programs of actions as a means for responding to short-term needs. The development of the National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) therefore is of 4 Regarding mitigation, Uganda strongly believes and supports the establishment of a more inclusive regime that combines both voluntary and supported mitigation actions consistence with the principle of equity and Common But Differentiated Responsibility. Mr President In concluding, I would like to stress that while adaptation is critically urgent and necessary for the most vulnerable developing countries, mitigation is equally important. But for Uganda, like most developing countries, mitigation actions such as (NAMAs and REDD+) are conditional on finance and technology transfer, among - others Uganda therefore looks forward to seeing a balanced treatment of the mitigation and adaptation issues in the draft decision to be proposed in Warsaw. We do not expect a mitigation-alone agreement in 2015. Finally, I would like to assure you of Uganda’s commitment to working closely with the Presidency and the Polish Government during the remaining days of this conference to ensure a successful and balanced outcome. I thank you