1 THE19th SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES (COP19) TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK FOR CLIMATE CHANGE CONVENTION (UNFCCC) AND THE 9th SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE MEETING OF PARTIES (CMP9) TO THE UNFCCC Warsaw, Poland 20 November 2013 Country Statement By Pehin Dato Haji Suyoi bin Haji Osman Minister of Development Brunei Darussalam Your Excellency, Mr Marcin Korolec, Minister of the Environment, Poland, the President for the 19th Conference of the Parties (COP19) to the UNFCCC, and the 9th Conference of the Parties serving to the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP9). His Excellency Mr Ban Ki-­‐moon, the UN Secretary General. Excellencies Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me begin by expressing our sincere appreciation to the Government and the people of the Republic of Poland, for the hospitality and excellent arrangement of this COP19 and CMP9 in Warsaw. Let me also, Mr President, congratulate you for your election as the President of this COP19 and CMP9. 2 Through your wisdom and able leadership, we believe that our meetings here in Warsaw, will have a comprehensive and fruitful outcome -­‐ in an open, party-­‐driven, transparent and inclusive manner. Like others who have spoken before me, let me also convey our deepest sympathy to the Government and the people of the Philippines, and Viet Nam, on the devastating effect of super typhoon Haiyan. A typhoon considered as one of the most violent storms ever to make landfall on the Southeast Asian region. And has damaged and destroyed infrastructures and lives, and left many more homeless. Our thoughts and prayers are with them. Mr President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen. In the face of worsening impacts of climate change, that the world has time and again is experiencing, we need to do a reality check. Typhoon Haiyan is perhaps an eye-­‐opener and a stark reminder that we have just not done enough. We need to intensify our global efforts to address and tackle climate change and its impacts. When we left Doha last year, we have agreed to the Doha Climate Gateway for a new 2015 climate change regime, and the pre-­‐2020 ambition. Under this new regime, there should be a balanced treatment of all the elements of the works of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 3 Durban Platform for Enhanced Actions (ADP), including mitigation, adaptation and the means of implementation, to be in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Convention. And we feel that there should be a strong link between the pre-­‐2020 and the post-­‐2020 actions and ambition, that can certainly be built upon and enhanced, based on the existing arrangements. We need to maximise our global efforts and move speedily towards a universal climate change framework, in order to ensure that the world can stay below the 2 degrees temperature rise. Immediate ratification of the amendment to the Kyoto Protocol will therefore be a good starting point, to ensure further commitments to reduce greenhouse gases in the second commitment period. In this regard, Mr President, Brunei Darussalam has initiated the national process for the ratification of the amendment. We are fully committed and firmly believe that despite our insignificant level of emisisons relative to the net global emission, our role and responsibility for such actions will also make a difference. We would like to reiterate and reaffirm our commitment and obligations, particularly in undertaking nationally appropriate mitigation and adaptation actions, in accordance with the provisions and principles of the Convention. 4 We will continue to integrate and mainstream environmental dimensions into our national development projects, to ensure a sustainable development pathway. And we will continue to pursue efforts and do our utmost to address and combat climate change as a moral obligation and responsibility, to preserve this mother earth. Across a broad canvas, this includes the government’s initiative to diversify the economy away from the oil and gas sector. We have moved on to other areas such as resource efficiency and food security in our attempt to reduce emissions. We are working towards this goal and have made considerable progress, where our GDP grew from the non-­‐oil and gas sector’s contribution, from around 12% in the mid 70s to around 33% in 2012. We would also like to reiterate our continued commitment to implement our Heart of Borneo Initiative, where we designate 58% of our forest area to be conserved -­‐ a proud initiative that has also been highlighted by our leader, His Majesty The Sultan of Brunei, at the recent Commonwealth Head of Governments Meeting in Sri Lanka last week. We would like to see Warsaw as a pivotal point for implementation of decisions. The deadline for the 2015 will not be met without concrete ambitions. We need to make decisions in Warsaw, that will make us closer to what we hope in 2015, a new legally binding agreement that can carry us forward beyond 2015. 5 We call for Annex I Parties to provide financial resources to the climate fund, and make immediate pledges towards the goal of making available the USD 100 billion per year by 2020 for the implementation of the Convention. We also call for Parties to address the outstanding issues of barriers to technology development and transfer. Mitigation and adaptation simply cannot be done without the transfer of technology, and this is what is long mandated by Article 4.1(c) and 4.5 and other related provisions of the Convention. In the wake of the Haiyan typhoon, we cannot afford to delay our works on loss and damages. We therefore strongly support the G77& China’s proposal for the establishment of an international mechanism for loss and damage. Let me assure you Mr President, that Brunei Darussalam stands ready to work cooperatively and constructively towards a balanced outcome here in Warsaw, and in paving the way for Lima next year, and also Paris in 2015. WE CARE…. Thank You for your Attention.