UN Climate Change Conference 2013 Warsaw/Poland Statement by H.E. Mr Nikolaus Berlakovich Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Federal Republic of Austria Mr/Mrs [Vice-]President Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Colleagues and Friends, The Warsaw climate conference marks an important mo ment for all of us in our collective task to combat climate change. Yet another year has brought record temperatures ac ross the globe. The rise in carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere is getting steeper and steeper. The same with sea level rise: It is continuing at an alarming rat e. Let me start with the motto of this conference: I c are! I would like to turn this into "We care!". Facing the accelerating impacts of a changi ng climate, all of us here in Warsaw have to care about the outcome and the next steps. Our planet needs an ambitious new global climate agreement with concrete commitments for all Parties in 2015. It goes without saying that some differentiation between th e commitments due to the economic situation is a necessity. A fair share of contribut ions to come as close as possible to the 2 degree Celsius target is key. In order to achieve a good outcome here in Warsaw w e have to agree on a specific work plan for the road to Lima and Paris. We need a clea r view on milestones and deliverables for the next two years. And we need proposed commit ments already next year in order to make an assessment possible in the course of 2015. It is also important to address the pre-2020 level of mitigation ambition. I believe it is important that the Climate Summit of Secretary Gene ral Ban Ki-Moon takes this issue up as well. It is clear that we must act decisively to combat climate change. And it is clear that we must act here and now. We in the European Union are working intensively on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. It is a crucial st ep towards the global agreement to enter into force by 2020. We also know that developing countries will need co ntinued support for their mitigation and adaptation efforts. Austria has provided suppor t for a wide range of projects with our partner countries and we will continue to do so. I am also happy to report that we have met and in fact slightly exceeded our Fast-Start-Financ e commitment for 2010-2012. But we are also aware of the challenge for long-ter m climate finance. In June, we adopted a national Strategy for International Climate Finan ce. In addition, we are actively contributing to various efforts through the Adaptat ion Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the NAMA registry. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is time for us to invest in the transition from fossil fuels towards renewables. My goal for Austria is: Energy Autonomy by 2050, which means th at per saldo we will produce the same amount of energy as we consume. This also mean s to reduce the use of fossil fuels to an absolute minimum. Regions that are rich in re newables today will remain rich in the future. Renewables, by definition, cannot be depleted. They are key for sustainable development and sustained prosperity for all regions in the wor ld. But not only are renewables a key to prosperity for us all, they are also a central part of the solution to climate change. In closing, let me highlight that - while the threa t of climate change is daunting - I see a great opportunity. We need to rapidly change our en ergy systems, this will benefit the environment, but also the economy and it will creat e new and green jobs. Green growth brings together economy and ecology wh ich can and should go hand in hand. Energy may be part of the challenge, but it i s also an integral part of the solution. And that gives me reason for hope. I wish all of us a successful outcome in the negoti ations here in Warsaw. Dzi ękuj ę! Thank you!