OPENING STATEMENT BY SMT. JAYANTHI NATARAJAN MINISTER ENVIRONMENT AND FORESTS INDIA Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me take this opportunity to thank t he Polish presidency and people of Poland for the excellent arrangements and hospitality extended to us in this important 19 th COP. We have historic and close links with Poland and I am extremely pleased to be here. We also appreciate Poland for taking the init iative to host the Conference of Parties for the second time. Mr. President this is an importa nt COP held in the backdrop of initial reports of IPCC AR 5, which reaffirm the need for action. We have also seen the devastation caused in the Philippines by the typhoon Haiyan. Our hearts go out to them. Even parts of our country and south Asia are regularly suffering because of extreme weather events that have become more intense and devastating in the recent past. I am convinced that any delay in acting on co mbat climate change will be very costly for all of us. However, in a scenario where we need to do more, not just on mitigation but adaptation, what I hear with dismay is t he scaling down of ambition and lowering of targets for emission cuts by some countri es. We still have 7 years to go for 2020, and we cannot afford to give up the momentum at this point. Mr President, India is a large country with a very small carbon footprint. Our per capita emission is only 1.7 tonnes per annum. We have also committed that our per capita emissions will not exceed those of t he developed countries in future also. We are implementing the ambitious voluntary domestic goal of reducing the emissions intensity of our GDP by 20 to 25 % by 2020 compared with 2005 level. As a developing country, Indi a faces many challenges. Poverty eradication stands as our foremost priority. We have huge social and developmental constraints and have to address large unmet energy needs of our vast population. Yet, we are conscious of our global responsibilities. We are commi tted to follow a growth path that will help us remain sustainable, given the cons traints of our energy mix and heavy dependence on imports for oil and natural gas. We have already started taking action und er our National Action Plan on Climate Change. We have launched eight missions in areas of energy efficiency, solar energy, sustainable habitat, water, forestry, sustaining the Himalayan ecosystem, agriculture and strategic knowledge for clim ate change. We have set a target of generating 20,000 MW of solar power by 2020 and already achieved about 1200 mw presently. We have also introduced an inno vative trading mechanism (Namely PAT – Perform, Achieve and Trade) for energy effi ciency. A National Clean energy Fund (NCEF) has also been set up by imposing a cess on coal of Rs. 50 per tonne for financing renewable energy and environment friendly projects. Efforts have been made to encour age the states to put toget her their action plan on climate change. Most of our states have already planned th eir activities to tackle climate change. We have commi tted substantial resources on our own and are also looking for additional funds for these activities. There is a huge ambition gaps between what developed country Parties have pledged and what is required by science and their historical re sponsibilities. The irony is that developing countries have pledged much more than developed countries in pre 2020 period. Therefor e, in keeping with Article 3. 1, the developed countries should take the lead in bridging the ambition gap. I would like to underline that it is not conc eivable that we can get high post -2020 ambition through low pre 2020 ambition. High ambition is the bedrock for 2015 outcome. I would take this opportunity to urge upon the developed countries to ratify their pledge for the 2 nd Commitment period of Kyoto Pr otocol. Delay on this count sends a very wrong signal to the world about our commitment to address climate change. I am equally convinced that enhanced ambition should not be just in mitigation but in adaptation, finance and technology support. Fo r developing countries, provision of support - technology transfer and finance are critical for NAMAs in the pre 2020 action. I am happy that the focus of UNFCCC relati ng to agriculture has been on adaptation. Climate change has direct impact on our farme rs, most of whom are subsistence farmers and it takes a toll of our food security and poverty reduction goals. Adaptation is our priority and will remain so. It is time that our COP delivered on fina nce. Simply creating the institutional arrangements like Green Climate F und does not help as its coffers are still empty. This brings us to the need for a clear roadmap on provision of finance for 2013-15, 2015-2017 and then up to 2020. Public finance should be the pr imary source of fund for climate finance. I cannot emphasise enough the matter of tec hnology transfer. India has put forth a new proposal which would reward innova tors, but at the same time, help all developing countries and facilitate technolog y transfers in a meaningful way. We have called for creating a new window in the GCF for funding IPR protected technology to developing countries by payi ng the difference in cost. Otherwise TEC and CTCN will remain a paper exercise. I would like to submit that internati onal cooperative initiatives must follow the principles of the convention especially equity and CBDR, if they are to be accepted under UNFCCC. Developing countries should be provided the flexibility to choose their actions. Many of such initiatives are already part of national strategies and they don’t bring any additionality to the ambitions. The availabilit y of specific financial and technological support for effective implementat ion of such international initiatives is also not spelt out or assured. We theref ore, insist that supplementary actions for increasing ambition at the inte rnational level must fully re spect the national priorities of sustainable development and be bas ed on the availability of means of implementation in accordance with the principles the Convention. The issue of HFC has to be addressed by us under this convention. In the meeting of Montreal Protocol in Bangkok last month, many countries, including some from G 20, have opposed amendments to bring it under MP. The issue should not be seen from a business perspective of providing mark ets to domestic companies. Developing countries need clarity on identified substitu tes, their costs, safety and economic feasibility. We can’t take a leap of faith without knowing the exact path and the pitfalls. It is time that we had an honest di alogue instead of raising the rhetoric Loss and damage is an important area of work affecting developing countries mostly. The decision of the last COP to set up a mechanism for addressing loss and damage must be taken to its logical conclusion. Many parties have been repeating the view that the proposed new architecture is applicable to all. I would like to info rm and reiterate that the UNFCCC Convention and the Kyoto Protocol are also applicable to all. Universality does not mean uniformity. Mr. Chair, the world is watching us. We have a historic opportunity to change the trajectory of our future development by taking bold decisions. The developed countries must take the lead and incentivis e actions for developing countries in these global efforts. Thank You.