GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI STATEMENT BY HONOURABLE HALIMA ALIMA DAUD, M.P., MINISTER OF ENVIRONM ENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT (LEADER OF DELEGATION) AT THE 19th SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE AT NATIONAL STADIUM CO NFERENCE CENTRE WARSAW, POLAND 19 NOVEMBER 2013 1 Madam COP19/CMP9 President, The Executive Secretary of UNFC CC, Ms. Christiana Figueres, Your Excellencies Ministers and Heads of Delegations, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen. On behalf of the Government an d people of Malawi, I wish to congratulate you on your election as President of this conference. Mr. President, I would like to concur with the statements made by the Chairs of the Group of 77 and China, Least Developed Countries as well as the African Group. The delegations have outlined with clarity, the perils of postponing action on the k ey climate change issu es that confront us here in Warsaw. They have, sincerel y made it clear that the world is impatiently waiting for our decision s, in particular on the issues surrounding adaptation, mitigation, capacity building, technology transfer, use of market mechanisms ; agriculture, loss and damage and climate finances including the Green Climate Fund, Mr. President, the adoption of a second comm itment period of the Kyoto Protocol in Doha last year was an essential step forward. As such, we encourage all developed co untries to join and adopt ambitious targets in emission reductions as well as pl edged amounts in new and additional climate change finances. Developed country Parties that are still not 2 willing to join the second commit ment period must equally take comparative emission cuts under the Convention. Mr. President, in Malawi, intensive rain and flooding have challenged communities, damaged infrastructure and continue to threaten many livelihoods and loss of life. Furthermore, climat e change has routinely subjected the 14 million Malawians to other im pacts that negatively affect agriculture, human and animal health, fisheries, forestry, water, and wildlife resources. In addition to extreme rain and fl oods, the country also experiences severe droughts that continue to th reaten food security and availability and access to water resources. As I speak to you right now, many vulnerable Malawians are struggling du e to negative impacts of climate change. For them life is a conti nuous struggle full of hopelessness. However, the COP-19 here in Warsaw provides us an opportunity to enable many people like the ones I ha ve cited to adapt adequately to the adverse impacts of climate chan ge. We therefore need to make concrete decisions that w ill help such people to meet their livelihoods now and in future. Mr. President, we see a great and increasi ng need for political and moral leadership and action in the fa ce of these escalating threats of climate change. The levels of ambition s for both emission reductions and pledges for climate change finances are too low to meet the desired 3 goal of the Convention. All the vulnerable peop le need an immediate assistance through effective adaptatio n and other related efforts. The current funding situation is, however, inadequate. Mr. President, we need to fully operatio nalize the Green Climate Fund; agree on decisions that will proper ly balance funding for adaptation, mitigation, technology transfer and capacity building. Here in Warsaw, we must strengthen REDD plus and set up an effective monitoring, reporting and verification [MRV] system based on common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. In Cancun we adopted the Cancun Adaptation Framework, with its institutions, which was a stepping stone in addressing adaptation in developing countries including Ma lawi. Now is the time we start implementing what we have alread y agreed and operationize it. I call upon the developed countries to provide additional financing and technology so that we can implemen t adaption actions in our Countries. Malawi has now started embarking on a journey to identify and implement medium and long term adaptation needs for our National adaptation Plan process and this w ill need concerted efforts from development partners to enable us address the challenges of climate change for our communities. Having elevated climate change to high priority status our National Development and Growth Strategy, and creation of a dedicated 4 ministry on climate change, Malawi ne eds global partnerships to scale up its national mitigation and adaptation me asures as currently outlined in the National Climate Change Poli cy, the National Climate Change Programme as well as the newly developed National Climate Change Investment Plan which we are going to showcase on Friday at a side event, and you are all invited. Thes e initiatives require technical and financial support for the actions to be realized to the benefit of all the vulnerable communities. Mr. President, we have a window of oppo rtunity here in Warsaw to achieve a better outcome for our people. My delegation is confident that under your able leadership, Warsaw will deliver a set of positive decisions that will anchor a bal anced and comprehensive roadmap to take us to the year 2015 in Paris when we shall adopt a 'truly' legally- binding outcome for all of us, taking into account the principles of equity and common but differentiated re sponsibilities and respective capabilities. Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.