NALATOIA AL LAE AOR LEVEL SEUnNENT VP UV ISuNIT oS 20 November 2013 10:00 — 13:00 Plenary 1 Mr. President, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Malaysian delegation expresses its deep appreciation and gratitude to the government and people of Poland for their warm hospitality accorded to us in this beautiful city of Warsaw. Mr. President, 2. Malaysia is concerned that the amount of heat-trapping carbon dioxide in the global atmosphere has recently surpassed the indicative threshold level of 400 parts per million. This means we have a much smaller window of opportunity to achieve lower stabilization levels and the risk of more severe climate change impacts will be increased. 3. Recognizing the urgent need to address climate change as indicated by this recent development, Malaysia would like to emphasize that the important building blocks of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) namely adaptation, mitigation, finance, technology transfer and capacity building, need to be addressed and made operational immediately. The provision of adequate and timely means of implementation will enable developing countries to effectively address climate change in a comprehensive and holistic manner. Mr. President, 4. Malaysia urges developed countries that are Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (KP) to significantly scale-up their mitigation ambition. Developed countries that are not KP Parties and those who will not adopt legally binding targets for the second commitment period of the KP need to demonstrate comparable mitigation ambition. Doing so will enable developed country Parties to take the lead in mitigation and in so doing, fulfil a commitment made long ago under the Convention. 5. The principles of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities (CBDR) and equity as enshrined in the Convention must be respected. We are not here to rewrite or reinterpret the Convention, which will remain as the governing document for any future agreement. Mr. President, 6. The provision of new, adequate and predictable finance is critical for developing aL khanth adantatinn and mitinatinn actinne IInder the I INECCC but snouia be immediately capitalized to facilitate real and transrormational Change. Ve are concerned because these funds remain woefully inadequate. Therefore, we urge quick action in securing funds for both the Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund. 7. The establishment of the Technology Mechanism through the Cancun Agreement in December 2010 marks the first step in implementing technology deployment and transfer under the Convention. However the level of effectiveness of the mechanism remains to be ascertained. Looking ahead, it is clear that challenges such as the intellectual Property-related barriers to the transfer of the environmentally sound technologies to developing countries will need to be addressed. Mr. President, 8. The Malaysian government is fully committed in implementing its policies and in providing the necessary incentives and infrastructure for the various measures needed to mitigate the effects of environmental degradation and the devastating impacts of climate change. Malaysia is well on its way to achieving the voluntary indicator that was announced at the 15th COP to the UNFCCC in Copenhagen. Malaysia’s efforts to reduce its emissions intensity of GDP by up to 40% based on 2005 levels by 2020 are already yielding significant deviations from Business as Usual (BAU) in all three areas of importance namely renewable energy, energy efficiency and waste management. 9. Malaysia is also in the final stages of developing a long-term roadmap toward a low-carbon society. One initiative that is already in place is the Feed-in-Tariff to promote the use of renewable energy for power generation. Our target is to increase the share of renewable energy in the fuel mix to 11% by 2020. At the local level, the Malaysian Government is enhancing public awareness on the importance of conserving the environment, on the dangers of climate change and on how all will have to actively contribute towards achieving desired environmental goals. Mr. President, 10. Serious action is needed by all parties to address the global challenges of climate change. Malaysia stands ready to contribute to the success of this and future Conferences. Thank you.