Post Office Box 21 Honiara, Solomon Islands STATEMENT BY HON. BRADLEY TOVOSIA AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE 19™ SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNFCCC AND THE 9™ SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES SERVING AS THE MEETING OF PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL, 215° NOVEMBER, 2013, WARSAW, POLAND Mr. President, Allow me to congratulate you on your election as the President of this COP and CMP. I would like to register my delegation’s deep appreciation to your government and people for the excellent arrangement of this conference and your warmth hospitality. Solomon Islands wish to align this statement with the statements delivered by Fiji on behalf of G77 plus China, Nauru on behalf of AOSIS, and Nepal on behalf of LDCs. I wish to make additional remarks in my national capacity. Mr. President, The projected high intensity and unpredictable nature of extreme climatic events reaffirm the importance that this Conference must set the stage for us to establish a science based, effective and robust climate agreement in 2015. Given their high vulnerability and limited capacity, SIDS and LDCs have very legitimate concerns about their future on the basis of past observational record and present climate model projections. On that note, my Government and people wish to convey our condolence to the Government and people of Philippines for the thousands of lives lost and others who were affected as a result of Super Typhoon Haiyan last week. Our thoughts and prayers also go out to Palau, Federated States of Micronesia and Vietnam on the destructions caused by Typhoon Haiyan. First we need to take urgent time bound and accelerated emission reductions to close the pre 2020 mitigation gap. This includes Annex | Parties to review and enhance their commitment by 2014. For Developed Parties who are not Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and Protocol Parties who have not made second commitment under the Protocol to make comparable commitments under the Convention. We also would like to see global emissions to peak no later than 2015 if we are to stand any real chance in keeping temperature at safe levels well below 1.5 degree Celsius. Prior to and during the conference we regret to see the largest per capita income party and the fifth largest emission emitter respectively, backtracking on their emission reduction commitment. This has cast a shadow over the negotiations. Mr. President, The 2015 Agreement we seek is a legally binding Protocol under the Convention applicable to all, based on the principles and provisions of the Convention. Means of implementation including finance, technology transfer and capacity building are needed for developing countries to carry out high potential mitigation actions. In the case of Solomon Islands these include participating in the REDD plus program, renewable and efficient energy technologies and empowering a resilient society. Furthermore Solomon Islands value Climate Finance as a key enabler for developing countries to implement adaptation and mitigation actions towards achieving the global long term temperature goal, and hence must be an integral building block of the 2015 agreement. Here in Warsaw we need to see a clear pathway for scaling up the mobilisation of climate finance towards meeting the goal of USD100 billion per year by 2020. We further submit that there must be a balanced allocation of climate finance between adaptation and mitigation actions. We also seek the early capitalization of the three year old Green Climate Fund by next year and call for the set-up of a readiness support arrangement under the Fund to pave the pathway for direct access. My delegation welcomes the convening of the Ministerial High Level Dialogue on Finance under your Presidency yesterday and to which we found useful and look forward to see a shift from commitment to action. continue to exacerbate the rate OF SCd level Ps@ dul OULldll Aviva WW ow heading toward an uncertain future that threatens the survival of humanity in particular the vulnerable populations in LDCs and SIDS. Against this backdrop, as a country surrounded by vast ocean and with a number of low lying islands, the issue of Loss and Damage is critical. It is our expectation that a Loss and Damage international mechanism be established here in Warsaw to compensate and address permanent loss impacted by climate change including sea level rise and ocean acidification. Mr. President, On the second commitment period, my delegation is mindful that only four countries have since ratified the amendments under the Kyoto Protocol, now provisionally applied eleven months ago. Solomon Islands endeavors to do its part and ratify the amendments to the Protocol in the near future. Mr. President, In our global fight against climate change, we need every state to be part of the solution. The Republic of China/Taiwan is seeking meaningful participation in the UNFCCC. Solomon Islands stand by the Republic of China/Taiwan and request the Conference to consider the Republic of China/Taiwan’s request. In closing, once again Solomon Islands reaffirm its commitment to the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the negotiations process before us. We are all in this together, the health of the world, survival of our people and the future of our children rests on the action we take today. May Warsaw be remembered as the COP that paves the way for immediate implementation and action. We must show the world that WE CARE. Thank you Mr. President.