Please check against delivery Statement by Dr. Pithaya Pookaman Advisor to Minister of Natural Resources and Environment, Kingdom of Thailand at the Joint High-level segment of the 19th session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and the 9th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (COP19/CMP9) Warsaw, Poland, 21st November 2013 Mister President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Please allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over this Conference. Let me also take this opportunity to express sincere gratitude to our host, the people and the Government of Poland, for their warm hospitality. Thailand would like to join other delegations before me in expressing our heartfelt condolences to the people and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, who are severely affected by the devastating Super Typhoon Haiyan. Our hearts also - 2 - extends to the victims around the world suffering from similar catastrophes associated with climate change. Mister President, Like other countries in Asia and around the world, Thailand is no stranger to the extreme weather phenomena. In 2011, Thailand had experienced the worst flooding in half a century, which caused massive loss of lives and painfu l disruption on people’s livelihood, and seriously impeded its economic development. It goes without saying that Thailand has become another developing country highly vulnerable to climate change. Therefore, we strongly support the development of a comprehensive step towards the institutionalization of Loss and Damage under the UNFCCC which would serve as a mechanism to support information exchange, insurance and remedy for loss and damage. Mister President, With respect to mitigation, we have been through the two decades under the UN Climate Change Convention and various mitigation efforts under the Kyoto Protocol. Now is the time that we must make the adoption of the Second Commitment Period of the Kyoto Protocol a reality. As for the issue of the Pre-2020 - 3 - Ambition, Thailand urges all UNFCCC Annex-I Parties to scale up their mitigation ambition. In the areas of Finance, the Fast Start Finance and the Green Climate Fund will play an important role to support the means of implementation for adaptation and mitigation (including the REDD+). Thailand would like to recall Annex I Parties to continue mobilizing financial support with more accessible modalities, based on good governance and sustainable use of finance. Mr. President, My final point, Thailand has long embraced the concept of sustainable development as a guiding principle for our development policy. The Royal Thai Government has established the Country’s Strategy based on His Majesty the King’s “Sufficiency Economy” philosophy which stresses moderation and pacific coexistence with the nature as a way to tackling the climate change. Finally, as we embark upon our national efforts towards low- carbon growth and climate resilience, Thailand would like to call on the developed countries to lik ewise fulfill their commitments under the Convention, and raise their ambition in providing the wherewithal for their developing counterparts, to pursue low- carbon growth and adapt themselves to the adverse impact of - 4 - climate change. These will strengthen our common resolve and cooperation that will help us achieve a meaningful agreement to be adopted in the next two years. I thank you.