REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA NAMIBIA’S STATEMENT AT THE OCCASION OF THE COP19/CMP9, WARSAW, POLAND DELIVERED BY HON. UAHEKUA HERUNGA MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM Your Excellency the President of COP19, Your Excellency Secretary General of the United Nations Your E xcellenc ies Heads of States h ere present, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen Mr. President 1. At the outset, I would like to express Namibia’s solidarity with the people of t he Philippi nes over human and propert y losses caused by typhoon Haiyan. The Republic of Namibia would like to express its deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolence s to the People and Government of the Philippines for this irrevocable loss. Namibia stands side by side with the Philippine people at this difficult time 2. Namibia extends its warm appreciation to the Government and people of Poland for the kind hospitality extended to my delegation since our arrival in this beautiful city of Warsaw. We look forward to constructively engage and contribute to the discussions and ensure that COP19 is a resounding success with balanced outcomes that would give hope to our aspirations in our Endeavour to address challenges posed by climate change. 3. Mr. President, COP19 has come and will soon pass. It should not only enable us to discuss global environmental challenges our world faces, but more importantly, it should pave way to key decisions that would put climate change action at the fore -front of all development al processes and giving hope to our future generations. 4. As we are all aware, the African continent, like other developing regions, relies mainly on rain fed agriculture, fisheries, and tourism for its economic growth. These resources are affected by the negative impacts of climate change. It is for this reason that Namibia and Africa have prioritize d adaptation as an approach to address climate change impacts. 5. The outcomes of IPCC in all its editions are loud and clear. Temperatures are rising at an alarming rate. In the case of Namibia, maximum temperatures have been showing an upward trend over the last 40 years. Mr. President, 6. The adverse impacts of climate change know no national boundaries. Global warming is a catastrophic problem that needs a global solution. The refore, the multilateralism approach remains the fundamental approach in fighting climate change. In this view, we urge developed country parties to respect and adhere to the principles and provisions of the UNFCCC. We also call on Annex -1 Parties to the Convention to avoid procrastination and urgently implement the commitments made so far, in line scientific findings of the IPCC. 7. Costs associated with adaptation efforts are already being incurred by developing countries, with the aim of reducing the negative impacts of climate change. As a country committed to address the adverse effects of climate change, Namibia is ready to increase its mitigation efforts provided that sufficient financial and technical support is provided. 8. At COP17 we came up with the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action. This Platform should not be misinterpreted to fit the interests of some. In Durban, we agreed to a new legally binding Instrument that would enable all Parties to take meaningful actions in line with the principles and provisions of the UNFCCC. 9. In our opinion, the new legally binding instrument should take into account the principles and provisions of the UNFCCC partic ularly the historical responsibility, right to development of developing countries equitable share of atmospheric space and respective capabilities. This new agreement should also ensure a balance d allocation of financial resources between adaptation and mitigation efforts for developing countries. Mr. President, 10. Namibia believes that i n order to achieve a comprehensive new agreement under the Durban Platform, we need a science -based approach to disentangle and unfold conceptu al and statistical aspects underpinning issues related to historical responsibility, equity and respective capability. As Parties to the convention, we have established the IPCC to provide us with science based policy information. This body, will bridge the scientific information gap and with utmost urgency 11. May I remind Parties that t his is the 19th COP.? This means that we have been negotiating for 19 years. Therefore, it is the hope of the citizens of the world that 19 years down the line, we should have better addressed the challenges and well equipped ourselves to better deal with climate change. However, the opposite seems to be manifesting. The Green Climate Fund, which we regarded as a n ideal beginning to address the finance aspect for climate change remains dry. The question that comes to mind is: Where are we heading with this process ? Mr. President 12. We need to move forward and effectively implement our UNFCCC’s decisions. Let us put words to action. Climate change has no border; it affects all citizens on earth. The cost of inaction to, adequately, addre ss climate change will haunt us all. The time to take meaningful and proactive steps against the adverse impacts of climate change is now, here in Warsaw. This is a defining moment of whether or not we can save the lives of the future generations on this Planet. 13. It is for t his reason, and most importantly, that Warsaw should therefore deliver to a World Decision that save s lives. Do we care about human lives ? Namibia cares! I thank you