STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF H.E.MS. SANJAASUREN OYUN, MP AND MINISTER FOR ENVIRONMENT AND GREEN DEVELOPMENT OF MONGOLIA BY MR. BUYA TULGA, VICE -MINISTER AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON CLIMATE CHANGE, POLAND, WARSAW, 20 NOVEMBER, 2013. Thank you Mr. Presiden t, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me make this statement on behalf of H.E.Ms Sanjaasuren OYUN, MP and Minister for Environment and Green Development of Mongolia, who is not able to attend this conference due to urgent deliberations at the Parliament. Mr. President, At the outset, I would like to extend our warm congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your well -deserved election and pledge my delegation’s full support in discharge of your important duties. I believe that the Parties to the UNFCCC and its Kyoto protocol could make great progress in arranging to the 2015 agreement fulfilling the Durban and Doha mandate s for the work of the ADP under your able leadership. I also would like to thank the Government and p eople of Poland and the historic city of Warsaw hosting this conference and excellent arrangements and warm hospitalities given to the participants in the conference. Mr. President, Climate change is giving us very clear signals of its adverse impacts. Super Typhoon Haiyan just occurred across North Palau and the Central Philippines and Vietnam has le ft a trail of numerous death a nd widespread destruction. Such extreme weather disaster and the tragic loss of human lives and property demand that we have to work on the 2015 agreement with heightened responsibility and renewed urgency. Our speed of work in international climate change negotiations is much l agging than growth of damages and losses caused by disastrous w eather and climate phenomena. Well balanced adaptation and mitigation measures could help developing countries to achieve the ambitious goals to establish climate resilient and low carbon societies. The Mongolian Government’s green development strategy and mid -term action programme emphasize d climate -resilient, environment -friendly, low carbon growth. Adaptation, Mitigation, Capacity building, Financing and T echnology transfer are the key in ac complish ing objectives set in this green development strategy. Mr. President, Climate change undermines development gains and constrains future development options of the countries. Therefore, even if impacts are largely local and adaptation response measures take place primarily at local level, t here is a global responsibility to enhance action on adaptation. I underscore that Nation al adaptation plans (NAPs) are the key chan nel for informing the international community on the needs, priorities and experiences at national level. This is fundamental given that adaptation to climate change is an iterative and progressive process at the national level. Under the new agreement, NAPs should be a cornerstone of the Convention’s work in adaptation. One of possibilities to mitigate GHG emissio ns in developing countries might be successful implementation of its nationally appropriate mitigation actions ( NAMAs ). Implementing NAMAs can mitigate not only GHG emissions, but also contribute to the efforts to solve other development problems in the co untry. Technology transfer and financing are essential components of national climate change response policy and are of very importance to identify and implement clean technologies that best suited for each country for climate change mitigation and adaptation. In the time of CDM implementation challenges, Mongolia is looking at other possible solutions one of which is Bilateral Offset Credit Mecha nism (BOCM) or Joint Crediting Mechanism (JC M). Mongolia is the first country to sign the bilateral agreement with Japan in January this year to implement so called J CM. We look at JCM as a mechanism which aimed not only to reduce GHG emissions but also contribute to reduction of environmental pollution and assist in sustain able development of developing countries through facilitating transfer of low carbon, advanced technologies. From developing country perspectives, transfer of highly efficient, low carbon technology is crucial both for improving local environment, reducing pollution and facilitating economic growth. And I do believe this is in the core objective of such mechanisms like JCM, successful implementation of which will assist countries to reach the path of sustainable development. Mr. President, In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the importance of the need for a balanced treatment of all items in this Conference. The success of the 2015 agreement will depend on out comes of this Warsaw conference. Thus, I call a ll Parties to show their strong willingness to tackle with climate change challenges and to move into more concrete work modalities as soon as possible to achieve a solid return under the ADP here in Warsaw. Thank you for your kind attention