Statement by the Italian Minister of Environment, Land and Sea ANDREA ORLANDO COP19/COP-MOP 9 (Warsaw, 20th November 2012) Mister President, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, the year 2013 is an important trans ition point. In fact, a new track of negotiations on the futu re regime is started Unfortunately this year has also pr ovided a clear demonstration of how dangerous and challenging climat e change is both for developed and developing countries alike. My heart goes to the victims of the recent disasters in the US, the Philippine s and on the wonderful island of Sardinia, just to mention the most recent examples. We need to act now. We can't postpone our decisions any longer. As the IPCC evidence proves climate change is mainly a co nsequence of human activities. Recent events have largely confirmed that mitigation action post-2020 alone WILL NOT be sufficient to man age climate change risks. Substantial efforts PRIOR to 2020 are essential to achieve the objective of the Convention in a cost-effect ive manner. Otherwise it will be like, quoting an Italian saying, - to shut the st able door after the cows escaped. Nevertheless, a LONG TERM perspecti ve is also needed. We need to prepare in order to REAC H an agreement in Paris in 2015 which allows all Parties to commit and take concrete action. To achieve this the 2015 agreement needs to give ri ght incentives to all Par ties to step in and act. Still, global participation is not enough. We have to ensure that our starting point in Paris is adequate and that the agreement con tains a sufficient level of ambition and transparency, which means that all co mmitments need to be quantifiable. We need to pass fr om general statements to commitments that are measurable and comparable trough specific indicators, thus allowing to assess them and keep track of progress. Italy is enhancing its strategy to put its economy on a lo w carbon pathway. Renewable energy sources and energy efficiency policies and measures, not to mention incentives, are key to reach this goal, as well as standards and best practices, that can help to ac hieve objectives in a coordinated and cost-efficient manner. Mitigation is not the only issue on our political a genda also adaptation has a prominent role. I believe that ther e is a pressing need to mainstream adaptation into t he development policie s, at all levels. Italy has just presented its adaptation strategy to enhance climate resilience and reduce climate risk in our count ry and is open to comments and suggestion from experts and civil so ciety. The strategy includes also financial resources needed to implement urgent actions estimated at about 2,5 billions of euro per year for the next 15 years, both from public and private sectors. In the framework of the Climate Co nvention and Kyoto Protocol Italy promoted and implemented in the last 15 years joint projects with the developing countries, both in mitigation an d adaptation. We are working in more than 40 countries, in Africa, Asia, Latin America and in the small Pacific Islands. Italy is committed to continue to promote internatio nal environmental cooperation. A clear, stable international framewo rk is needed to a void fragmentation of action. For this reason here in Warsaw we need to agree on a clear pathway towards a fair, am bitious and binding deal. Until now there have been m any discussions on how to get to such a deal. It is time to capture the essential elements of the deb ate in a work plan that keeps us on track to agree a new Prot ocol by 2015 and to concentrate in 2014 and 2015 on substantive discu ssion to this. Each Party has the responsibility to not only express its position, but all over make an effort to converge to a common denominator. In a challenging economic scenario like the present one, the certainties of a long-term binding Protocol applicable to a ll and able to reflect the evolving reality, can provi de us with the tools needed to strengthen and extend cooperation on emissions re duction and a rapid world-wide transition towards a green economy. The world faces many challenges, but building a competitive economy while tackling climate change is one of the most pressing challenges. Some would argue that you can't do bot h at the same time - that one must take priority over the other. I fi rmly disagree. Economic growth and sustainability are not mutually exclus ive. I believe that we must cut harmful emissions cost-efficiently and cost-effectively decarbonize our economies. This shou ld be seen as a part of th e solution, as well as a moral imperative. We are ready to do our pa rt and we are confident th at here in Warsaw we can take another step forward in our common effort to face global climate change.