Statement at the opening of the high-level segment of COP19 by Connie Hedegaard and Valentinas Mazuronis on behalf of the EU and its 28 Member States Warsaw, 19 November 2013 Connie Hedegaard, European Commissioner for Climate Action [Secretary-General Ban,] Mr. President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! e Sometimes when you despair of the slow pace of these negotiations, and of the discrepancy between the many alarming words and too few urgent actions — it's often good to step back. And what do we see then? We see climate change moving to the centre of the debate on economic policy. Global economic leaders get this. e World Bank President Jim Yong Kim calls climate change a fundamental threat to economic development. Christine Lagarde, Managing Director of the Intemational Monetary Fund, has said it is by far the greatest economic challenge of this century. And most recently Angel Gurria, the head of the OECD, said we face a choice “between stranded assets and a stranded planet." e If we want to move faster we need to mainstream climate action into the economy, into our key political choices and into our development strategies. We need a paradigm shift. e So how can the international climate negotiations contribute to this? Above all, by being serious about the 2015 deadline. It is not a tentative deadline. It is not just something nice to aspire to. It is a ‘must have! because global action is already running late. And obviously it cannot be an empty agreement that is only fine architecture without any concrete ambition and commitments. Commitments — that is ACTIONS — is what matters. e In 2015 - six years after Copenhagen, four years after Durban - no country will have a legitimate excuse for not having done its homework, for not having prepared its pledge and its fair share of the contribution. That is why the EU is proposing a step-wise approach to encourage ambitious commitments under the 2015 agreement. The commitments must be transparent, quantifiable, comparable, verifiable and ambitious. } Za ate | ~f @ £U2013.LT ? ak tm ay e Parties need to prepare their pledges in 2014. We need a decision here in Warsaw that recognises this, that sets out the information Parties should provide up front, and that paves the way for an assessment or consultation phase. This is vital to ensure commitments are collectively adequate to meet our agreed goal. e The Warsaw Climate Conference should put us on the right track for closing as quickly as possible the global gap in the pre-2020 level of mitigation ambition; and contribute to an ambitious, legally binding agreement by 2015 that covers the period after 2020 and puts the world on a credible pathway to meet the below two degrees objective. Here we should learn from the economic policies: if targets are not met, normally you don't change the target. No, you add more policies in order to achieve the target. Nowhere in politics will this approach be more needed than exactly in climate policies. e Thank you. Valentinas Mazuronis, Minister of Environment, Lithuania [Secretary-General Ban,] Mr. President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! e Recent events have only strengthened Europe's resolve to deliver our contribution to the global climate challenge. We have delivered on our financial pledges. As the world's largest contributor to development aid and climate finance, we will deliver our fair share of the collective USD 100bn objective for 2020. We are delivering on our commitments for the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period. And even with all necessary measures in place to meet our reduction commitment for 2020, we are taking concrete steps to do more. e The Warsaw Climate Conference should also make substantial progress in the implementation of existing decisions and taking new decisions in relation to mobilising long term climate finance and addressing adaptation, loss and damage. e Since our agreement on a second commitment period in Doha last year, the EU has Started its implementation. Moreover, we have been working hard to prepare for the ratification of the Doha Amendment. Less than two weeks ago draft legislation for our ratification was formally presented to our Legislator. We intend to finalise our ratification processes as soon as possible in 2015. In turn we call upon the other Kyoto Parties — more than 100 -- necessary to bring the Protocol into force, to join us in this effort. EEE EEE EEE EE OE LILO EEE OE ELLIE SI EISEN AINA ABB NADL AA NNN NAR ER PNR WEEE CLI energy policies. Our Heads of State and Government will return to this issue in March next year, bearing in mind the objectives set for the Paris conference in 2015. e The European Union stands ready to work with other Parties in a constructive manner, to secure balanced, future-looking outcomes to be adopted in Warsaw. These should prepare us to respond to the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon invitation addressed to world leaders to attend a climate change summit in September 2014, to prepare our first draft Agreement for Lima next year, and put us on track for a successful outcome in Paris. e We are grateful for the impressive efforts Warsaw has made as host, and look forward to your leadership providing critical momentum towards Paris. We must make this conference count. In solidarity with the victims Super Typhoon Haiyan, we must work harder with each other to move ambition upward, not downward. Thank you!