1 NEPAL – Statement delivered by Hon. Vishwendra Paswan, Minister for Science, Technology and Environment Mr. President, Excellencie s and Distinguished Delegates Allow me to congratulate you Mr. President, on your assumption of the Presidency. At the outset, I would like to express our deep est condolence s on the recent tragic incidents in Paris and convey s olidarity with the people and Government of France. Mr. President, I would like to draw your attention that climate change has been imposing a dditional stress es in the Least Developed Countries in general and the Small Mountain ous Developing States in particular. The increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather events have been alarming both in the mountain ous countries, and those countries in lower basins. Nepal has been witnessing in increasing temperature that has accelerated glacier melting in the Himalayas, including the Mount Everest Region. This has increased the risk of glacier lake out-burst floods threatening the lives and livelihood s of our people. Climate change has been affecting our water availability, agricultural production, tourism and ecosystem services. Due to the fragility of our mountain ecosystems, issues related to loss and damage is becoming more prominent. Therefore, I urge all parties to ensure that the gl obal average temperature rise is maintained below 1.5 degree Celsius compared to the pre -industrial level. I also urge you all to recognize the contribution s that mountains offer to humanity and conside r increasing supports to the most vulnerable LDCs and small mountainous developing states like Nepal. Mr. President, Nepal has taken several policy and institutional measures to build our resilience and adaptive capacities. We are maintaining 40% of our land under forest cover with several Protected Areas, promoting renewable energy, introducing dedicated climate change budget code, declaring our capital as plastic bag free zone, promoting Bicycle ride and preparing a Low Carbon Economic Developmen t Strategy. However, our national efforts with limited resources and capacity alone is not sufficient to resolve the adverse impacts of climate change. Nepal contribut es less than 0.1 percent of global green house gas emission, yet we suffer the most. Hence, I strongly call upon the countries with high er emission s to take lead ership in reducing their emission s to secure a safer planet. Mr. President, Last April, more tha n nine thousand people died of earthquake and around half a million families became homeless. Additional challenges due to Climate Change have accelerate d our economic and ecological vulnerability. Therefore, I call upon all 2 developed countries to ensure new, additional and predictable financial support to secure the lives and livelihoods of the most vulnerable countries including small mountainous developing states. Finally Mr. President, Let’s handover Mt. Everest to our grand -children at the same level of purity as Tenjing Norga y and Sir Edmund Hil lary have seen in the history. As Lord Buddha said, we are here not to blame each other for past faults but to find middle path for peace and prosperity, I urge that we all unite for a fair, ambitious and legally - binding Agreement here in Paris to secure a climate resil ient and sustainable future. Thank you very much.