Statement of H.E. Dr. Khaled Fahmy Minister of Environment And President of the African Ministerial Conference on Environment (AMCEN) Before the Twenty First Session of the Conference of Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Paris, 7 December 2015 Excellency, Laurent Fabius, President of Twenty First Session of the Conference of Parties of the United Nations Framework Conventions on Climate Change, Excellencies, distinguished ministers Mr. Secretary General of the United Nations Mrs. Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC | have the pleasure to speak on behalf of the African Group. | would like to stress that African countries are speaking with one voice, and to assure you of the African Group determination to engage constructively and to reach a successful outcome of the Paris Conference. Ladies and Gentlemen, We are facing a crucial juncture in our international endeavor, as this Conference is a turning point in achieving our common goal to secure a better future for humanity and protect the rights of the next generations, by reaching an ambitious, sustainable and balanced international agreement to face the increasingly dangerous climate change-related challenges. adverse effects. As a continent, that is a huge landmass with above global average temperature increases, deep development challenges and chronic poverty, Africa cannot be expected to divert our resources away from development or be excluded as a block from receiving climate finance. Therefore, it is imperative that any flexibility arrangements in the agreement should include the African countries, together with the least developed countries and small island developing states. In the Convention and, with greater precision, in Bali we agreed on a language that addressed the circumstances Africa has, and it is honoring such agreed language that would enable African participation in the post-2020 arrangements. The new agreement should not jeopardize the African countries’ right to development or impede their efforts to eradicate poverty. The new agreement should strengthen the implementation of the convention, avoid rewriting or reinterpreting it, and be in accordance with its provisions and principles, in particular, the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, It should address in a balanced manner all- the elements: mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology transfer, Capacity building, and transparency of actions and support. Thus, it is unacceptable that we give most of our attention to mitigation without attaching similar importance to the other components of the agreement, especially those related to developing the adaptation Capabilities of the developing countries, Parity for adaptation should be operationalized in the 2015 Agreement through a definition of the Global Goal for Adaptation (GGA), and specific Provisions enabling action, additional support to developing countries for adaptation and loss and damage and their Operationalization. The latest UNEP’s Africa Adaptation Gap report indicated that Africa needs between at least 15 billion dollars annually until 2020 for adaptation, and needs between 50 to 100 billion dollars annually until 2050, and that the domestic finance that the Continent could mobilize would not exceed 3 billion dollars annually, which means that there will be a financing gap not less than 12 billion dollars annually until 2020 and will keep increasing exponentially after 2020 by much higher rates,, The Paris Agreement must address transparency of financial support as well as adequacy of support provided by developed countries based on the analysis of the funding gap for global climate action. Rich developed countries should continue to Provide support to developing countries based on clearly defined obligations building on those in the Convention. We need to double Green Climate Fund (GCF) capitalization in the immediate term, and treble it by 2020. going to 2020. These are the minimum elements for an acceptable agreement for the African countries. Inaction is not an option for Africa, Therefore, Africa showed its leadership and contribution to the global efforts, led by developed countries, to address the adverse effects of climate change by developing two innovative and transformative initiatives, which were launched earlier during COP 21: the African Adaptation Initiative (AAI) and the African Renewable Energy Initiative (AREl). The first initiative endeavors to support our continent on adaptation, while the other one aims at promoting renewable energy in Africa. | call on the international community, governments, private sector or regional and international organizations, to lend full support to, these two vital initiatives, which contribute to our international endeavor in addressing climate change challenges. Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite of the difficulty and severity of the challenges that we are endeavoring to address, | am confident that we have enough determination, wisdom and solidarity to overcome these challenges and realize another historic achievement in the field of international cooperation, which will secure a brighter future for our peoples and for the future generations. Thank you.