HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT Check against Delivery Statement by H.E. Ms. Marlies Amann-Marxer Minister of the Environment, Liechtenstein Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the peo- ple and the Government of Peru for their warm and welcoming hospitality over the past two weeks. Secondly, it is a pleasure for me to inform you that during its October session the Liechtenstein Parliament approved the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol accepting a 20% reduction until 2020. As Liechtenstein has no heavy indus- try whatsoever and the greenhouse gas emissions in the refer- ence year 1990 have been relatively low, the challenges for fur- ther increases in emission reductions for us are considerably higher then for other countries. Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, The latest IPCC Report states that total anthropogenic GHG emissions from 2000 to 2010 were the highest in human history. The report further concluded that limiting warming to 2.5 °C or 3 °C would require substantial emission reductions over the next few decades, and near zero emissions of CO2 and other long- lived GHGs in around 85 years. That means that someone who is born today will have to experience a tremendous change in global energy systems over his expected lifetime. It is on us to provide the basis to be able to overcome this global challenge. With 37’000 inhabitants and a territory of around 160 square kilometers Liechtenstein is one of the smallest countries in Eu- rope. Our annual emissions are around 230’000 tons of CO2 equivalents. However, these relatively small figures shall not re- lease us from our obligation to deliver our fair share to support a zero emission world by 2100. The recent developments in our country prove that we are ab- solutely serious about our climate change commitments and the required pathway. From 1990 until 2012 the country’s GDP ex- perienced a growth of about 140%, with an increase of popula- tion of around 25%. At the same time Liechtenstein managed to decouple its economic growth from its greenhouse gas emis- sions. Since 2008 Liechtenstein provided around 50 Million Swiss Francs of subsidies to support the deployment of domestic re- newable energy production. These subsidies have triggered in- vestments of around 250 Million Swiss Francs. Over the life cy-cle of the subsidy measures, approximately 150 to 170 million litres of heating oil will have been saved. Additionally, we are proud to have achieved the second highest share of photovoltaic installations (per capita), directly after Germany. Mr. President, Let me assure you that we will not rest on our laurels but will continue our efforts to show that economic growth and mitiga- tion of greenhouse gases may go hand in hand. As a well-developed country - in this spirit of solidarity – we will continue to fight climate change and its consequences especial- ly within the less favourable regions of our globe. In the period 2011-2015, Liechtenstein has provided means of 1.3 Million USD for climate finance projects in developing count- ries. These means are new and additional to the budget for de- velopment cooperation. We consider this as our contribution to international climate funding. In addition to the already existing and strong commitment of Liechtenstein to climate finance, it is a pleasure for me to announce today that Liechtenstein will also contribute to the initial capitalisation of the GCF with 50'000 Swiss Francs. With this contribution Liechtenstein joins its partners within the Environmental Integrity Group, namely Korea, Mexico, Monaco and Switzerland. Let me point out that the EIG is currently the only group of countries where all its members have pledged fi- nancial contributions to the Green Climate Fund. Mr. President, as you can see Liechtenstein has taken up the challenge of combatting climate change with all means. We are ready to contribute to the ultimate objectives of the Convention and the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement in Paris next year. Muchos Gracias!!!