Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 1 Excellencies, Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen,,, I am very pleased to be with you today atten ding this crucial and decisive conference and even more so, to be among such a distinguish gathering of discussion makers, scientists and experts from all around the world representing the private, public and non -governmental sectors. Distinguished guests, Today the entire world is focusing on this conference, we are under the watchful eyes of the entire world, they will expect nothing less than a conclusive and, comprehensive agreement for the Climate Change that is transparent and mea surable. The citizens of our blue planet deserve nothing less than to see and celebrate this monumental and epic conclusion,,, their way of life, their livelihoods and the survivability of their children depend on our conclusions. Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 2 Ladies and gentlemen, No matter whether your country is a developing one or developed, lets keep in mind that our skies and our environment knows no boundaries, we share the same air, the same oceans and water resources. The increase deforestation, bleaching of t he coral reef in the Caribbean, the melting of the glaciers in Polar Regions and the changing climate all in one - way or another impacts every living organism on this planet. The last 150 years of human development has had devastating impact on our eco system s and natural resources. Today, the level of GHG in our atmosphere is more than in any time in hu man history and as a result has brought us to the edge of what is referred to as the ecological tipping point, the brink of ecological collapse, the point where many species may never be able to recover from. We are living in very stressful and challenging times, civil wars raging in the Middle East and record number s of displaced refugees from Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen, terrorism and xenophobia combined with hard economic times Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 3 are all becoming the norm. This new paradigm sometimes makes i t impossible to give priority to the protection of environment and ecosystems... The future, you may conclude, looks bleak, but I am not here to convey a message of despair and failure but rather optimism and success. The Human race has never been more resourceful and resilient than at times of crises and upheaval. Jordan, Ladies and gentlemen, is classified as a lower middle income country with little to no significant natural resources, we ha ve a chronic water shortage, and designated one of the 4 poorest water countries in the world, Syrian refugees in Jordan exceed 1.5 million, which has a significant impact by exploiting our natural resources public services and affects our paths toward our sustainable development, moreover our growth in energy demand has increased to 5.5% annually reaching 25% of our GD P with no indigenous oil supplies, yet we are still optimistic. Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 4 As signatories to all the environmental conventions and agreement s since the 70s of the last century and with the determination, conviction and the fulfillment of His Majesty King Abdul lah the II Bin Al Hussain's vision which insists on our compliance to all signed agreements and re-affirms our commit to a path of sustainable developm ent, we have incorporated all the S DG goals into our National Strategy 2015 - 2020,,, effectively blend ing our economic development objectives with the Millennium Development targets incorporating the green growth, green economy, gender equity, human right s and education principles into the proposed legislations and projects. During the opening of COP21, His Majesty the King pledged Jordan’s continued cooperation with the world community for the realization of a “comprehensive, collective, sustainable global action — action that gets results.” Ladies and Gentlemen, Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 5 Last October we where one of the first developing countries from our region to submit our INDCs to the UNFCCC. Our INDCs were fashioned in full transparency and cooperation with the en tire spectrum of possible stake holders, including Agencies both private and public, ministries and universities NGOs and experts, all had something to say. As a result 14% of our national GHG will be reduced in comparison to the do nothing scenario,,, at a total cost of 5.5 billion USD,,,, of which the lion's share are mitigation projects the rest are adaptation bu t most importantly they will, by-in-large be designed, developed and operated by the private sector, the public sector's role will be limited to legislate, monitor and enforce, the private sector has already developed more than 50% of our renewable ener gy target of 10% by 2020 and an interest in energy efficiency is on the rise, however, Jordan is aiming to double its target of renewable energy contribution by 2025. This is our chance to not only help contribute to saving our beautiful planet but also to help overcome our economic challenges. This is why the Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 6 need to reach a positive outcome during This COP is so important for us, and future generation s and for our pl anet, we need to insure fair, ambitious and legally binding commitments on GHG emissions and introduce greener growth trajectories. This cannot be done by only some countries, in order to pull through we need to do this together maintaining the equal but differentiated responsibility status of member states. To achieve this goal, we need to secure concessional and accessible funding and financing for the private sector, which will be paramount to our achieving our 14% GHG reduction goal. Ladies and gentleme n, I am confident that the months o f preparation and negotiations will not go in vain. I am sure that an agreement that is ambitious and binding and comprehensive is possible. Dear Colleagues Jordan’s Official Statement Presented By H.E. Dr. Taher Al Shakhashir / Minister of Environment 7 I wish you all successful deliberations