1 GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI STATEMENT BY DR YANIRA MSEKA NTUPANYAMA PRINCIPAL SECRETARY FOR ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT ( HEAD OF DELEGATION) AT THE 20th SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWO RK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE LIMA, PERU 11 DECEEMBER 2014 2 His Excellency Mr Manuel Pulgar - Vidal, COP. 20/CMP.10 President, The Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Ms. Christiana Figueres, Your Excellencies, Ministers and Heads of Delegations, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen. On behalf of the Government and people of Malawi, I wish to congratulate you on your election as President of this C onference. Mr. President, several Heads of Delegation have made it clear that the world is impatiently waiting for a positive outcome here in Lima. We expect to agree on the elements of a new, global pact for cu rbing green house gas emissions, to be adopted in Paris 2015. Mr President, the outcome to be adopted next year in Paris should be one that will take our peoples out of the perils arising from the adverse impacts of climate change. And the way we arrive at this deal should be through open, transparent and inclusive means, mai ntaining the principles of the Convention, and strengthening the multilateral rules -based system. Mr. President, climate change has routinely subjected the 14 million Malawians to impacts that negatively affect agriculture, human and animal health, fisheries, forestry, water, and wil dlife resources. As I speak to you right now, many vulnerable Malawians are struggling due to negative impacts of climate change. We therefore need to make concrete decisions that will help such people to meet thei r livelihoods now and in future. Malaw i has embarked on processes to develop national adaptation plans, nationally appropriate mitigation actions, and intended nationally determined contributions, notwithstanding the fact that our emissions stand only at about 0.04 per cent of the global total. In order to implement the frameworks outlined above, Government has developed a National C limate Change Investment P lan, estimated at US$1 billion for the next five years, which outlines priority areas in adaptation, mitigation, capacity building, technology development and transfer, and financing. 3 Mr. President, we need to fully operationalize the Green Climate Fund; and explore linkages with other funds established under the Convention, in order to meet the needs of the vulnerable people and comm unities. Mr. President, we are convinced that we have a window of opportunity here in Lima to achieve a better outcome for our people. My delegation is confident that under your able leadership, Lima will deliver a set of positive outcome s that will anch or a balanced and comprehensive roadmap to take us to the year 2015 in Paris when we shall adopt a 'truly' legally -binding outcome for all of us, taking into account the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. I thank you all for your attention.