Addressing of H.E. dr. lvan Orlic, ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina to France, personal representative of Dr. Dragan Covic, chairman of Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Vos Excellences, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, En ces temps difficiles pour le peuple francais, mais aussi pour le monde entier, accablé par les attaques terroristes, je souhaite exprimer mes plus sinceres condoléances et mon soutien absolu aux familles des victimes, avec le désir que quelque chose de semblable ne se reproduira jamais. L’excellente organisation de COP21 représente un symbole de la victoire de la vie sur la peur et exprime clairement la puissance du peuple francais, et l’organisation de cette conférence le prouve. Bosnia and Herzegovina is making great efforts to be an active part of the international forces in the fight against the disastrous consequences of climate change. We have produced and submitted our INDC to the UNFCCC secretariat, and in the upcoming period, hard work awaits us on the implementation of the obligations stemming from the INDC. We hope that, with the full support of the international community, a manner enabling the achievment of the common goal will be implemented. Since we are geographically located in an area which is particularly exposed to extreme climate change, and since we are very vulnerable to climate change and its consequences, opportunities. In that regard, we expect further and stronger support from the European Union, whose efforts we fully support in the negotiation process. That is why we are ready to, through synergetic action and in line with the objectives of sustainable development adapted in September this year in the UN General Assembly, adapt our economy, society and the environment to the low-carbon development, through which we need to elevate the contribution of the renewable energies to the highest possible level. Last year, we had the biggest and the most disastrous floods in our history, which took many human lives and caused untold damage to housing facilities and the country’s economy. For that reason, in cooperation with the international community, we took decisive action on the assessment of potential risks, and made a plan of action in order to be able to act preventively and to avoid similar catastrophic events. We are permanently strengthening the prevention of risks of climate change in terms of improving the Early Warning Sysytem, highlighting the modernisation of equipment, training, capacity building, transfer of technology and knowledge. which should be effective, binaing tor all countries, with a clearly highlighted common and shared responsibility to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, but also with a precisely defined relation between developed and _ less developed countries. For this, we have been provided with an excellent basis by leaders of the countries of the world on the 30th of November, encouraging negotiators to agree and determine the final text of the Paris Agreement, the implementation of which should be the path to a better and fairer climate future. Thank you