1 Lao People's Democratic Republic Peace, Independence, Democracy, Unity and Prosperity Statement by H.E Madam Monemany NHOYBOUAKONG Vice Minister of Natural Resources and Environment, Lao PDR at the High-Level Segment of COP21 and CMP11 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of Parties 21, 7 to 8 December 2015, Paris Monsieur le Président de la COP 21, Mesdames et Messieurs, Permettez-moi, au nom de la République Démocratique Populaire Lao, d'exprimer notre sympathie la plus sincère au peuple et su gouvernement Francais, et adresser nos félicitations les plus conviviales pour l'excellente organisation de cette historique COP 21. Avec votre permission, Monsieur le Président, j'aimerai poursuivre le reste de mon discours en la langue de l'ASEAN. The world situation is such alarming that any delay in taking effective actions to tackle climate change will only lead to bigger disastrous impacts at the global level. The enormity of the losses will eclipse our capacity to cope with. There is an immediate need for all of us to overcome our differences and opt for the win win approach at this COP 21. Let us deploy our wisdom and political will to reach an universal applicable legally binding instrument, an historical milestone and gift to our grand children and grand grand children. Without this clear and easy to be implemented Agreement, it would be very challenging to also effectively realize the recently adopted Sustainable Development Goals. Active participation and engagement of the private sector is also very critical, including our local communities. 2 Mr. President of the COP 21, Ladies and Gentlemen, Despite the tremendous challenges, namely its high vulnerability to climate change impacts and its limited resources, the Lao PDR is determined to join hands with the international community in the fight against the Global Warming. This aim is clearly stated in our 8th National Socio Economic Development Plan objectives for years 2016-2020, and reflected in our Intended Nationally Determined Contribution. Among the goals are these: in the year 2017, our Climate Change and Disaster Law will be promulgated and implemented; By 2020, 70% of the country land will have forest cover; 90% of the Lao rural households will have electricity; hydropower exports will expand contributing to the reduction of green house gas emission of our neighboring countries; and effective revision of the climate change and natural disasters curriculum at all education levels, as well as wide awareness to the Lao people. And by the year 2030 the share of small scale renewable energy will be 30% of the total energy consumption, and the Lao people will be more effective in coping with the adverse climate change impacts. Before concluding, I would like to seize this opportunity to express our heartfelt appreciation to all Development Partners, Development Banks and International Organizations for their relentless support to Laos endeavor in the fight against the climate change. We look forward for their kind assistance in the successful implementation of our INDC. Lastly, may I reiterate the strong commitment of the Lao PDR in working closely with all countries to achieve the ultimate goals of the Convention. Again, I wish to emphasize the urgency of making an historical breakthrough at this COP 21. Kob Chai Lai Lai Je vous remercie de votre attention