Mr. President Allow me to express congratulations to the Government and people of Peru and gratitude for hosting COP20. We me et this year within the context of efforts to ensure a sufficiently ambitious and binding global agreement in Paris next year. We also gather amidst increasingly compelling scientific evidence that climate change is the most urgent global threat we face. For small islands and low lying coastal states, such aspects as the recent confirmation that average global temperatures and sea levels are rising faster than predicted, spell disaster if left unchecked. In Guyana, with ninety percent of our population living on a coastal strip that lies at or below sea level, the risk is particu larly acute. For my country, with most of our population and infrastructure below sea level, our very survival is threatened by these increasingly negative impacts. It is imperative that adaptation be inscribed as an important element, and that the requisite resources be provided to help vulnerable countries safeguard themselves as they seek to grow sustainably and develop a green economy. We therefore con sider it a matter of urgency that significant progress is made here in Lima toward an ambitious agreement. For us, that Agreement must be legally binding, with flexibility for LDC’s and SIDS. It must also be structured to reflect the elements of the Bali Action Plan, with parity between mitigation and adaptation. Mr. President, Five years after Copenhagen, pledges by developed countries to reduce emissions to ensure 1.5 or less than 2 degrees warming are still to materialize. We therefore welcome the recent announcements of China, the U nited States and the E uropean Union for enhancing mitigation ambition, and we urge other developed countries to step forward with enhanced ambition. In this regard, w e maintain, that in the global fight against cli mate change, historical polluters must take the lead with economy wide emission reduction commitments, and that historical responsibility should provide the basis of their contributions. Accordingly, nationally determined contributions must focus on mitigation primarily, while allowing for linkages with adaptation and finance. The contributions must be science -driven and assessed in a multilateral rules -based system. They must also ensure that the aggregate level of mitigation ambiti on should be 1.5 or well below 2 degrees Celsius and sufficient to en sure the livelihood of the most vulnerable. For developing countries such as Guyana, iNDC’s should be determined according to national circumstances and capabilities, and there must be f lexibility and differentiation for SIDS and LDC s. We expect to identify actions which we can undertake without support, and actions for which support will be required to implement. For this reason, although relatively small with limited economic means, and with negligible historical or current emissions, Guyana is committed to contributing to global mitigation efforts. I am pleased to announce, in this regard, that the Government of Guyana has decided to ratify the Doha Amendment of the Kyoto Protocol, and will shortly deposit its instrument of acceptance. Mr President, we join with you in identifying REDD Plus as a key desired outcome for COP 20. It is clear that we cannot achieve the target of containing global warming to 1.5 or even 2 degrees without transformative action on forests. Permit me to commend your country on its early engagement with REDD+ which has resulted in successes thus reflecting the confidence in the REDD+ mechanism. Guyana has demonstrated a high level of political commitment to fulfilling its role in the global climate change solution. Even before the Copenhagen COP, Guyana adopted a Low Carbon Development Strategy which aims to c onserve and sustainably manage our forests in an effort to reduce global carbon emissions and at the same time attract resources to foster growth and development along a low carbon emissions path. The agreement between Guyana and Nor way launched one of the first national -scale REDD+ initiatives in the world. If forest coun tries are to reconcile the world’s needs for forests to be kept intact with their own need to develop, then the challenge is to make national development and sust ainable use of forests complementary, not competing objectives. For this to happen, the right economic incentives need to be in place and to ensure there are economically viable alternatives. We therefore join the call, Mr. President, for the Warsaw REDD Plus Framework to be operationalized and implemented. Under the Convention we have a package of REDD Plus decisions from Warsaw. Under the Green Climate Fund we have the recently approved Logic Model for REDD Plus results based paymen ts. We must work to bridge the two without delay in order to promote coherence and synergies in efforts to conserve and sustainably manage forests to mitigate climate change. Mr President, especially given the current low level of mitigation ambition and the severe impacts that face vulnerable countries like Guyana in the medium and long term, we cannot over emphasize the importance and need for adaptation to be a key element in the new Agreement, and that support for implementation of nation al adaptation actions for SIDS be adequately provided. Further, Mr. President, c limate finance should be define d in the Agreement as the requisite means of implementation of required action s. Climate finance must be new and additional, and must be adeq uate. The Green Climate Fund must be a central pillar of the financial architecture, and there must be a robust MRV framework for tracking the provision of funds. Important ly, there must be simplified and prioritized access for countries with capacity constraints and high vulnerability. Mr. President, overarching political comm itment is needed to bring the elements together and to inspire and scale up actions that can lead to a low carbon future. Lima holds the key for the prospects of this process. Let us together pursue bold action and outcomes which will provide substantive elements and a clear timeline necessary to make a truly meaningful and ambitious global agreement a reality in Paris in December 2015. I assure you, Mr. President, of Guyana ’s continued commitment to working with you and all partners here, in Lima and in Paris, to achieve this outcome.