Plenary Remarks at COP 20 -- December 10, 2014  Thank you very much. I want to first thank Peru and particularly thank my friend Minister Manual Pulgar -Vidal and his fine team for all they are doing to make this COP a succes s.  I would like to focus this morning on the full-throttle climate change commitment of President Obama and his Administration at home and in the international arena.  The world rightly expects the United States to lead and we are doing that.  Exactly four weeks ago today, I was in Beijing with President Obama for the historic joint announcement he made with President Xi of China o n our respective post 2020 targets.  The U.S. target of 26 -28 per cent is very robust. To illustrate: 28% lies on a straight l ine path between a 17% reduction in 2020 and an over 80% reduction in 2050 – an amount generally associated with the US being on a 2 degree path.  During th at same week in November, President Obama announced the U.S. contribution of $3 billion to the Green Climate Fund, which has now received capitalization pledges of over $10 billion, a major step forward.  Moreover, all during the past 18 months, the Obama Administration has been working intensively to implement the President’s landmark Climate Action Plan. Most notably, our EPA has issued a major proposed rule t o cut emissions from existing U.S. power plants 30% by 2030 and another proposed rule to require new power plants to me et rigorous emissions standards. o We are also in the midst of implementing aggressive efficiency standards for light and heavy duty vehicles as well as robust efficiency standards for all the appliances that make buildings run. o And we are hard at work on measures to reduce the emissions of methane, as well as HFCs. Regarding HFCs, we are working with many other nations toward securing an amendment in the Montreal Protocol to start phasing those pollutants down, an action that could save an enormous amount of emissions between now and 2050.  In short, th e United States is moving on all fronts, behind the mobilized political will of President Obama, Secretary Kerry and the other climate leaders of our Administration.  Here in Lima, of course, we are intensively focused on achieving a positive outcome in or der to put us on the path to a successful agreement in Paris. Let’s make sure we focus on how much is at stake and not lose the forest for the trees. We can get this done and I believe that we will get it done.