STATEMENT BY Dr. Rose MUKANKOMEJE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RWANDA ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY (REMA) COP20/CMP 10 LIMA/PERU, 10 December 2014 Excellency, the President of COP20/CMP 10, Excellencies Head s of State Honorable Ministers and Heads of Delegations, Secretary General of UN, Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen I am greatly honoured to address this gathering on behalf of Rwanda. It is my pleasure to add my voice to those of who have spoken bef ore me to congratulate you, Mr President, for the excellent facilitation of this conference. Allow me also to express my sincere appreciation to the people and the Government of Peru for the warm hospitality accorded to our delegation since our arrival i n this wonderful City of Lima. Rwanda extends her support and confidence in you Mr President and in Madam Christiana Figueres, The Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC in the leadership and guidance of this Confererence of Parties to wards successful conclusions. Mr President, We recognize that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It represents a daunting threat to our plane t, ecosystems, human societies and livelihoods. The recently released 5th assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is warning us that greenhouse gas emissions concentrations in the atmosphere are now the highest they have ever been, and will continu e to rise if human actions follow current trend s. There is consensus that failing to limit the increase of temperature below 1.5 Celsius Degree puts at risk the future we want. Rwanda is deeply concerned with various climate change impacts including floods, droughts which undermine the country development and most frequently result into loss of lives and property. Mr President, Rwanda has taken a proactive approach in mainstreaming the Environment and Climate Change in our long term national development plan, Vision 2020, which guides our short and medium term strategies and specific actions towards achieving su stainable economic development. In addition, Rwanda e stablish ed a department in charge of climate change, the appointment of our Ministry in charge of Natural Resources as Rwanda’s National Implementing Entity ( NIE) for Adaptation Funds. Specific responses to the environmental pressures and climate change impacts have included the cross -sector Green Growth and Climate Resilience Strategy. The key featur e of the strategy has been the operat ionalization of the National Fund for Environment and Climate Change (FONERWA). The fund is facilitat ing the implementation of climate actions undertaken by public and private sectors and non -governmental Organizations. To date, the fund has catalyzed green investments from private sector actors and is poised to leverage significant private sector resources well into the future. Let me use this opportunity to express our deepest gratitude to all development partners that have provided substantial support for its establishment. Whereas there has been wide ranging support to drive climate action in Rwanda, the support of UK’s development arm DFID and the Government of German through KFW are worth highlighing. In this re gard, we strongly urge developed countries to agree and deliver on climate finance mechanisms. The support to the Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund (GCF) is crucial to ensure national initiatives underpin systemic climate resilience and sustainabl e development that guarantees countries a secure post 2015 global agenda. Mr President, It is imperative that we have a successful climate deal in Paris that must necessar ily engage all countries in working toward s adoption of the most ambitious emission reduction targets, effective in limiting global temperature rise to safe levels consis tent with what science tells us is needed to minimize impacts on the most vulne rable countries. The New agreement to be adopted in Paris must also strengthen our ability as a global community to cope with the inevitable changes we now face, providing in particular effective financial, technical and capacity building support to the most vulnerable countries to cope with climate impacts. For this reason, we underscore that information that Parties will provide when putting forward the ir intended nationally determined contributions (INDCs) in the context of the 2015 agreement. We need first and foremost to have a common understanding of the scope of the INDCs to be provided in accordance to the principle of Common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities (CBDR&RC). Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, To conclude this remarks, Rwanda wish to join other parties to acknowledge those who pledged around 10 Billion USD for GCF and we invite other developed countries to do so. Thank you / Muchas Gracias