1 Statement by: H.E. Dr. Majid Shafiepour Motlagh Special Assistant to the Vice-President ( Head of Department of Environment ) of Islamic Republic of Iran COP20/CMP10, UNFCCC Country Statement Delivered in the High -Level Segment 1-12 Dec. 2014 Lima -Peru 2 Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Ministers, Delegates & Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, At the outset, I wish to express my sincere appreciation to the Government and people of Peru for the hospitality extended to my delegation. COP -20 of UNFCCC in Lima is now more than ever a unique opportunity to address the future legal regime of climate change as the most important multi -dimensional challenge of the 21st century. Mr. President, Climat e change is a global challenge with serious consequences f or nations across the globe. T he cost of inaction far outweighs those of taking concrete meas ures. W e need to address the root causes of climate change in order to be able to respond effectively. As acknowledged by scientific evidence, t he largest share of historical emissions, causing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmospher e have occurred during the industrial revolution. Developed countries, however, continue to seem hesitated to take t he lead. The Mitigation gap remains due to their unfulfilled, insufficient and at times, evaded commitments. Reform of the international economic system, is imperative for enhancing sustainable development and poverty eradicat ion. This is whilst the d eveloping countries need to develop economically to be empowered in the first place if they are to address climate change. Addressing climate change requires continued poli tical will and commitment by high GHGs emitters. We furthermore need coherent practical measures at the global level on the basis of the UNFCCC and its very principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities. They remain relevant, pertinent and critical to keeping international coopera tion on the right trac k which should be supported by inclusive and non -discriminatory provision of means of implementation. 3 We need to address and chang e our production and consumption patterns, to be able to make real changes to the business as usual agen da. Within the context of sustainable development, moving towards low carbon economy is of high importance in our collective endeavors. This process is a technology intensive one. We, therefore, need extensive global cooperation including practical measure s and mechanisms for developing, transfer and dissemination of technology on concessional and preferential terms. Fossil fuels, for many decades to come, continue to carry the lion share of energy consumption globally, as affordable, accessible and reliabl e sources of energy that contribute to the principle of energy for all. Therefore international cooperation for developing and transferring relevant technologies and associated know -how, to help achieving cleaner energy from fossil fuels is of paramount im portance. Furthermore, transfer of technology and associated know -how is critical for sustainable agriculture to pr omote food security and to combat hunger and poverty across the globe. Mr. President, Much of the West Asia n sub-region will face a hotter and dri er future. This area currently faces with sever e episodes of emerging environmental c hallenges such as continuous dro ught, severe reduction of rain and snow falls, dust and sand storms, incr eased evaporation and almost double the global average temp erature rise that we need to focus our resources for adaptation. This means that the global target for the end of 21st century is with us today. The sustainable development agenda of my country, in full coherence with intended nationally determined climat e change agenda includes, among others, shifting to low carbon economy by setting mandatory national targets for decreasing energy intensity, reducing energy subsidies, limiting major atmospheric pollutants, promoting energy efficiency, increasing share of renewable, modern and alternative sources of energ y as well as disseminating other environmentally sound technologies. These include, inter alia, improving energy efficiency of our existing power plants by around 5 percent and creating i ncentives for increasing the share of renewable capacity from 15 to 20 percent within the coming 5 years. Such practices extend to provide climate friendly solutions for water, food, agricultural products, health, energy and waste management. The Islamic Republic of Ir an welcomes and is determined 4 to facilitate cooperation with the public and private sectors from national, regional and international levels to intensify its national response to climate change. Mr. President, Allow me to conclude by reiterating that a chieving mutual benefit and win -win outcomes should be the goal of our collective efforts, one that bears pragmatic assurances for the sustainable development of the developing countries. As the Islamic Republic of Iran, we will be forthcoming and construct ively engage in the negotiation processes ahead of us. We will join the international community in taking measure s to harmonize our collective efforts to ensure a prosperous future for the present and the future generations. Thank you.