Republic of Zambia MINISTRY OF LANDS, NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ZAMBIA’S NATIONAL STATEMENT TO THE TWENTY - FIRST SESSION OF THE UNITED NATIONS CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE HELD IN PARIS, FRANCE FROM 30th NOVEMBER TO 11th DECEMBER, 2015 DELIVERED BY BARNABY BWALYA MULENGA PERMANENT SECRETARY MINIST RY OF LANDS, NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DECEMBER, 2015 1 • The President of the Twent y-first Session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Conventi on on Climate Change, Mr. Laurent Fabius; • The Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Ms. Christiana Figuerres, • Heads of Delegations, • Distinguished delegates On behalf of the Zambian delegation, I also wish to thank your Government and the people of France for the warm hospitality my delegation has enjoyed since our arrival in this beautiful city of Paris. Let me also join my colleagues who expressed their sympathy and solidarity with your Government and the resilient people of France and Paris in particular following the unfortunate events that happened two weeks ago. Mr. President, This conference being held here in Paris offers another opportunity for Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to demonstrate our commitment to tackle the global problem of climate change through adoption of a credible outcome that will safeguard the planet and survival of mankind. In this regard, the Zambian Government considers a legally binding outcome as the only credible outcome which should be delivered by Paris Conference. This agreement must strengthen a multilateral rule based response to climate change based on the principles and provisions of the Convention. It should not seek to re-negotiate the classification of countries but rather define their required efforts for mitigation and adaptation in relation to the temperature goal. We also expect the new agreement to place equal premium on adaptation and mitigation to ensure that it protects life of this planet and empower vulnerable countries that are already experiencing severe impacts of climate change to cope with the challenges. 2 Mr. President, The contributions that developing countries are making in addressing climate change, including the recently submitted Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) must be acknowledged and supported. For Zambia, our ambitious contribution outlined in our INDC is premised on adequate financial support to enable us meet the set targets. Therefore, we expect the outcome from Paris to make the provision of this support clear without further delay as we have timeframes for delivery. This will enable the developing countries like Zambia to contribute meaningfully to the implementation of the new agreement. Mr. President, Let me now address the need to recognize the special circumstances of some of our countries in the outcome to be adopted at this conference. It is a statement of fact that our countries are at different levels of developme nt and have different circumstances. For Zambia, our ability to contribute meaningfully to the implementation of the 2015 agreement on climate change is dependent on the availability of finances, capacity building, technological development and transfer. Therefore, it is important that the special circumstances and our diverse capabilities are reflected in the new agreement and in the level of support required by developing countries to enable developing countries to effectively contribute to addressing climate change impacts. As I conclude Mr. President, it is therefore, our expectation that the outcome at this important Conference will provide political re- assurance, catalyses global action to minimize climate change impacts and deliver significantly on the means of implementation, as a confidence building measure. I wish to assure you of Zambia’s commitment in supporting your presidency during your tenure and also as we prepare for COP 22. I thank you.