1 Statement by H. E Mr. R I Su Yong Minister for Foreign Affairs Democratic People’s Republic of Kore a (High -Level Segment, 7 December 2015 ) Mr. President Your Excellency Laurent Fabius, Congratulations on your election as the President of this historic conference. I hope the current conference would bring successful results under your able leadership. I also express my gratitude to the government of France and to Madam e Christi ana Fi gueres, Executive Secretary of the UNFCC and other staff members of th e Secretariat for their endeavor to successfully host th is conference. Taking this opportunity I’d like to express my deepest sympathy to the government of France and the victims who have suffered from the terrorist attacks last November, in Paris. I sincerely wish that the people of France would overcome the aftermath of the heart -rending tragedy and return to peace and st ability at the earliest possible. In this connection, t he DPRK, starting from its consi stent and principled position to stand agains t all forms of terrorism, and firmly express es its solidarity to the recent international efforts by a number of countries including the Russian Federation in fighting the extremism. We highly appreciate the outstanding effort for the successful union of the Paris Agreement by the government of France who hosted this conference and lead the political willingness of the international community to tackle the climate change issue. Mr. President, At present, climat e change is causing serious impact on huma n civilization and sustainable development together with socio -economic challenges such as dwindling natural resources, rapid increase of population and inequality. International community has set mitigation of climate change as one of major tasks for th e protection of environment and development by adopting the UN FCCC in 1992 and followed up by the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 on limit ing greenhouse gas emission, the major cause of global warming. Accordingly, f lexible international mechanisms such as emissio n trading and CDM were introduced and we have witnessed vigorous activities like transiti oning into low -carbon and green economy to prevent global warming. 2 However, the world is still suffering from abnormal climatic conditions like severe heat and cold, drought, typhoon and heavy snowfall, lead by exacerbation of food and water shortage that entail s international and regional disputes. Climate change is not an issue bounded by a certain country, but a global issue and a crucial matter affecting not on ly us, but as well as the coming generations, arising as the topmost priority task to be tackled by the international community for the future of humankind. In this regard, my delegation appreciates that measures to take urgent action to combat climate c hange and its impac ts are reflected as one of the post-2015 SDGs adopted at the UN Summit in last September. We also welcome the Paris Agreement as a result of series of negotiations, considering the following should be attained in due process of achievi ng the se goals. First, it is of great importance for all the countries to correct ly knowledge the global character of the climate change is sue and pay primary attention to ensuring international unity in the efforts to address ing this issue. Second, i t is necessary to foster international and regional cooperation in climate change mitigation, in particular, focusing on the provision of financial and technical assistance for the developing countries at an earliest date possible. Today, t he developing countries are none other but the major vi ctims of the negative impact due to climate change. The developed countries, at the same time of actively cooperating with the developing countries to enhance their resilience against climate change, must fulfill th eir historic responsibility and role in reducing the greenhouse gas emission. Third, any egoistic and un fair preconditions should not be brought up while providing assistance through using funds such as the Green Climate Fund, therefore reject the politi cization, and comply with the principle of fairness in the implementation of international mechanisms such as the CDM. Mr. President, The DPRK government has been continuously strengthening its legal basis for environmental protection and climate change mitigation and, in 2012 it has established the State Energy Strategy, one of whose main components is the policy of using natural energy while closely integrating the sustainable energy development with environmental protection. The DPRK, as a party to the UN FCCC and Kyoto Protocol, is also employing additional measures such as the High-efficiency Lighting Programme in order to reduc e the country’s total amount of greenhouse gas emission by 37.4% in the coming ten years. 3 Recently the respected Comrade KIM Jong Un, First Chairman of the National Defence Commission of the DPRK has declared a war on deforestation and put forward a massive project to turn all the mountains of the country into the mountains of gold thickly wooded with trees. Based on this massive project, we are currently carrying out a plan to afforest and reforest 167 hectares of mountainous areas that includes plating 6.3 billion trees in the coming 10 years and mobilized the entire country and the popular mass es for the implementation o f this plan. New tree nurseries are being established everywhere in side the country from center to provinces actively promoting the scientific forestation process. Once the plan is fully carried out, this will considerably contribute to improv ing our people’s livelihood and as well as to the international efforts to mitigate climate change by reducing the greenhouse gas emission, preventing natural disasters and increasing agricultural production. The DPRK government will continue to faithfully disc harge its responsibilities as a party to the UN FCCC and actively engage itself in the international efforts to protect the global environment. Thank you.