Statement by LAC countries to be delivered at UNFCCC COP -20 Lima, Peru* * text prepared by the government delegates of Latin America and the Caribbean to the UNFCCC. Costa Rica has the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of CELAC countries. Mr. President, At the outset, we would like to extend to the Peruvian government and the people of Perú our thanks for your hospitality and excellent organization and work on the road to the 20th Conference of the Parties in the UNFCCC and the 10th Meeting of the Parties of the Kyoto Protocol. The good mood and spirit that welcomed us in Lima gives us a very positive start for the work ahead of us. Conferences in our region have a history of enhancing dialogue and of moving the UNFCCC forward, towards better understanding, and increasing ambition. We are certain that, under your able guidance, this COP will deliver successful results and substantial outcomes and will put us on the path to reach consensus on the 2015 agreement. You can count on our full support in this task. We feel encouraged and motivated by the outcomes and key messages of the Social PreCOP on Climate Change, organized by the Government of Venezuela. The social Pre -COP has been a significant contribution to strengthening the social dimensio n of climate change in the negotiation process, as well as the participation of civil society actors in finding solutions to cope with climate change. We are convinced that these voices need to be heard in order to find a just and effective way forward in the negotiations. Mr. President, We commemorate this year the 20th anniversary of the entry into force of the UNFCCC, a milestone that must be promoted and celebrated. Latin American and Caribbean countries underline that the Convention is and shall rema in the central instrument to guide the international response to one of the greatest challenges of our time. The 2015 agreement is an opportunity to further strengthen the Convention. Latin American and Caribbean countries support the legally binding natu re of the new agreement to be negotiated and approved by COP21, and that the new agreement must respect the principles and provisions of the Convention. In this task, we need a transparent multilateral process that has to be party -driven, with the partici pation of all countries in the negotiations, as to give an adequate response to the needs of developing countries and to advance to the fulfillment of the objectives of the Convention. From this perspective, it is vital for the success of these negotiation s that decisions are taken in an open and transparent manner. Mr. President, Diversity is an important characteristic of our region, which includes some of the countries most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Latin America and the Caribbean jo ins with the international community in recognizing 2014 as the international year of SIDS, and reiterates its support for the continued efforts of SIDS towards sustainable development and combating the consequences of climate change, in the light of their unique and particular vulnerabilities, that should be adequately addressed in the 2015 agreement. In this context, we strongly support an effective treatment of adaptation in the 2015 agreement, in a balanced manner with respect to mitigation. Our region would like to see this reflected not only in the context of the elaboration of the basic elements of the new agreement, but also in decisions that recognize the early efforts we are already undertaking to adapt to the adverse effects of climate chan ge based on national circumstances as well as our common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. We acknowledge and encourage concrete steps, such as the parity of allocation of resources by the Green Climate Fund. CELAC countries are commited to contribute to the global effort s to keep temperature increases below 2 degrees Celsius by the end of this century, with the adequate international support and with own resources, for countries ready to do so, in order to fac e this crucial challenge. We wish to emphasize that the cost for adaptation directly increases if greenhouse gases emissions do not decrease. Furthermore, we reiterate the need to fulfill existing commitments on means of implementation, to build the confi dence necessary for reaching an agreement by 2015. That confidence can only be built on the basis of clear actions by developed countries to scale -up resources that are sufficient and additional, including transparency on how they intend to achieve their c ommitments, in particular the USD 100 billion per year by 2020. Transparency is also needed through the establishment of clear rules to monitor financial support, its sources and effective delivery. Therefore we believe that an important task ahead is to build such rules, including rules on monitoring, report and verification (MRV) for the provision of finance and other means of implementation. Mr. President, There is no doubt that a strong 2015 agreement will require a wide awareness of the challenges t hat climate change and its effects present for our societies. In this regard, we believe that greater efforts are needed to strengthen the mechanisms of capacity building and access to information, to build more resilient societies. We call to continue wor king to build solid bridges with civil society, interested parties and citizens in general, building better information networks and strengthening our democratic processes. From this perspective, we would like to thank the government of Venezuela in organ izing the Pre -COP, setting a landmark precedent in the dialogue with social movements and civil society, which resulted in a document of "Key messages for COP20 and the Ministerial Meeting of the Social PreCOP 2014". Among them, the political importance of education and participation as contained in Article 6 of the Convention and the need of its urgent implementation, as well as the inclusion of the issue of Climate Change and its structural causes in formal and informal education systems, as a right of pe oples and an integrally transforming action of social tissue to address climate change, considering gender equality, protection and implementation of human rights of women and youth empowerment as generators of transformations and innovative solutions to c limate change, from a fair, equitable and inclusive perspective. We are developing a growing South -South cooperation, in the spirit of solidarity and in accordance with national priorities and circumstances. We are aware of the benefits of South -South coop eration, considering its potential to contribute to a common understanding of the priorities of the region in combating climate change and its consequences. It is to be seen as supplementary, but not an alternative, to traditional cooperation modalities. Above all, Mr. President, Latin American and Caribbean countries strongly support that the 2015 agreement must differentiate among Parties, on the basis of equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in a manner that avoids backsliding from the commitments assumed by developed countries and moves us all towards the same direction in the global effort against climate change. Mr. President, We, the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, would li ke to express our willingness to actively cooperate for a successful COP here in Lima and to strive in our efforts to contribute to a process that is inclusive, transparent and effective in addressing the global challenge that climate change is posing to a ll of us. We are certain that your leadership will be fundamental in achieving these goals, and for this let me reiterate our full support.