1 Excellenc y, the Chairperson, Excellenc y, the Executive Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of H.E. the President of the Republic, J osé Eduardo dos Santos and on behalf of the Angolan People, I would like to convey greetings to H.E. the Chairperson, Mr. OYANTA OMALA and to the people of the Republic of Peru, and to thank you for the hospitality and the excellent conditions provided to us. I would also like to congratulate the United Nations and the Executive Secretary for the excellent work being do ne in the search for global sol utions, of which climate change is undoubtedly a major challenge to development and sustainability. Excellenc y, Very recently, Angola has completed a population and housing census, and the results allow us to design adequa te policies for the people and spatial planning, as well as for impro ving the standards of living for an increasingly inclusive human development. We are diversifying production so that growth provides more employment, development of infrastructures, but also for the qualification of human resources. Angola has significantly reduced the proportion of the population leaving in absolute poverty. Eradicating Poverty remains our most 2 important challenge. We are committed to establishing a just and equitable s ociety. We are also committed to ensure stability by reducing the vulnerabilities to the effects of Climate Change, by integrating them all aspects of our development discourse. The models for integrating climate changes into sustainable development requir e the excha nge of experiences, collaboration, and cooperation. Developed countries must support the strengthening of our adaptation and mitigation programs, allow ing us to adopt appropriate policies, which would enable developing countries to benefit from funding with projects and solutions. To this end, the Republic of Angola approved in 2011 its National Adaptation Program of Action and in engaged in the establishment of a National Adaptation Plan. Nevertheless, we note that the international resources c hanneled to complement national efforts are inadequate to meet the needs derived from our vulnerabilities. In addition, the Republic of Angola elaborated its first National Communication and is currently preparing its Second National Communication. In thes e documents, we elaborate our national efforts to enact a low carbon economy. Excellences, 3 There is no doubt that the Conference of the Parties is the body that should define and strengthen our positions. For the second period of commitment of the Kyoto Protocol, Annex One Parties have committed to reducing by 30% of their emissions in relation to the base year, and we think that the principles and mechanisms adopted through this dialogue to respond to our problems remain valid. The ambition and efforts to materialize the new legal instrument must have the understanding and participation of all the Parties. We need to acknowledge national circumstances; however, I must assert that Angola’s position, which is in line with the African Continent’s position, is, and will continue to refer to the need to differentiate responsibilities. The support to the Least Developed C ountries for adaptation should be clear a s a commitment, so that we can build a world of equity and solidarity. The developed countries mus t increase their contributions, and the Green Climate Fund should finance tangible actions, which will consolidate short - and long -term strategies in accordance with the forecasts. Education, training and capacity -building programs, the fight against pover ty and mainstreaming of the Gender perspective are a priority to reducing climate risks and adaptation for the most vulnerable. 4 The exchange of experiences in models for integrating climate change into sustainable development must be a priority, and furth er dialogues should be held for this purpose. Operationalization must be clear and mechani sms transparent. There is a need for greater knowledge, collaboration, and cooperation amongst the Parties, mainly between developed and developing countries, to ens ure that all the sectors benefit, as soon as possible, from access to new technologies, training and capacity building, as well as from the mobili zation of funding commensurate with our challenges. Excellences, We are certain that the New Climate Agreemen t will provide an opportunity for developme nt and growth, in order to sustain our common commitment to save our generation, that deserves the happiness of tomorrow and discover the Delight of Nature and Life. History has united our future, cultural realiti es and the integration of our continents through the climate; and Lima is today the Capital. Here our secular roots, as Africans from the Kingdom of Congo, that today affirms the happiness of its music and blood of freedom. We reiterate to the brotherly pe ople of Peru our gratefulness for the hospita lity in this capital of culture and beauty from its women to its sea. Thank you.