io1ael Vie President of COP 21 His Excellency Mr Laurent Fabius Executive Director of the UNFCCC Mss Christiana Figueres. Just a few weeks have passed since Paris suffered a number of vicious terror attacks. Those attacks were on the concept of liberty and the freedom of the common people - values that the French Revolution donated to our culture. | would like to convey my personal condolences and those of the people of Israel. | joined the summit last week and heard many speeches so | guess there is nothing new to say about the climate challenge — we know what needs to be done. That's why | will focus on Israel's plan. Some data. Be entind & million Nothing to write home about. The target that the government of Israel decided on is 24% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to a Business As Usual scenario. Our plan is to achieve the target by 5 main steps : 1. Increasing energy efficiency by 17% 2. Scaling up from to 2% to 17% renewable energy 3. Minimizing the use of coal 4. Transforming 20% of our transportation to public transportation. 5. Adopting disruptive technologies. | would like to elaborate the last topic. | joined politics last year after 20 years in the telecommunication business. | experienced the dramatic changes that technology brought about. and | saw how very clever strategies collapsed under disruptive technologies. That's why I'm very optimistic regarding our ability to meet our targets. Israel is often referred to as the startup nation. We have more than 350 clean tech companies and last year we were ranked number 1 out of 40 in clean tech technologies innovation. If you are not optimistic regarding the world target just close your eyes and imagine our world in 2030 : 1. The electricity networks will be much more efficient due to smart grid concepts. 2. Most of us will produce the energy that we will consume. 3. Every factory will use co generation. 4. Car companies will make more electric.cars than gasoline engine cars. Part of them will use automotive skills. 5. Public transportation will be much more smart and degree target? I'm sure it can. The 2 degree goal is within our hands. Thank You