SPEECH BY H.E. FATMA GÜLDEMET SARI THE MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND URBANIZATION THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY UN FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE 21st SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT (7th of December 2015 – Paris / France) 2 Esteemed President, Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to attend such an important Conference. I wish to express my deepest condolences to the French Government, the French people and the families of those who lost their lives in the recent terrorist attacks in Paris. I would also like to extend my appreciation to the French Government for hosting this historic event at such difficult times. Distinguished Delegates, Today, climate change is one of major challenges that humankind is facing. The adverse impacts of climate change know no border or any level of development. Therefore, it is imperative to take urgent me asures and strengthen cooperation on a global level. I believe that the Paris Conference will be a turning point for fighting the global climate change. The new agreement, which is to enter into force in 2020, should be inclusive, fair, equitable and take into account socio -economic facts of both the present and the future. In this respect, differentiation among countries is vitally important for the new agreement. Therefore, the Convention’s principle of common but differentiated responsibilities needs to be upheld. Paris Agreement also needs to provide a realistic and flexible system independent from the Convention’s unsustainable annexes. Undoubtedly, finance is one of the most important elements of the new agreement. Turkey, as a rapidly developing country, has a major potential for emission reduction. Turkey aspires to seize on financial assistance including the Green Climate Fund and technology aids under the new agreement, to support its emission reduction efforts. I would like to emphasize that due to its particular circumstances recognized by a number of COP Decisions, Turkey needs to take part in the new agreement as a Developing Country. However, Turkey recognizes the special circumstances of the Least Developed Countries and Small Island States. Turkey has been and always will be a party to provide these countries with assistance. In this regard, Turkey will host very important organizations i n 2016 : Firstly, the Least Developed Countries İstanbul Prog ramme of Action Review Meeting; secondly, 1st 3 World Humanitarian Summit. We urge all member states to participate these important fora at the highest level. Distinguished Chair, Esteemed Participants, As the Republic of Turkey, we have established a roadmap for 2030 to combat climate change. As a rapidly -growing economy, we aim at achieving up to twenty one per cent reduction from business as usual in greenhouse gas emission by 2030. This figure reflects Turkey’s potential for emission reduction as a result of policies and strategies that we aspire to put into effect in all industries of the Turkish economy by 2030. We also aim at achieving this objective by developing infrastructure projects, making use of more new and clear technologies as well a s renewable energy resources and saving energy. Further, to combat climate change, Turkey is preparing 2050 green growth strategy with the vision sustainable development. Achieving an annual economic growth of five per cent in average and an annual increa se of six per cent in energy demand, adopting such an ambitious objective is a clear sign of the utmost importance we attach to the fight against the climate change. In parallel with our capabilities and the level of international support we are to receiv e, we will increasingly continue to exert efforts. Further, I would like to state that Turkey would like to host COP 26 in 2020. As I conclude my remarks we are aware of the fact that this conference held in Paris is creating significant expectations at the world forum. As Turkish Delegation, I wou ld like to underline the fact that we will sustain our constructive attitude for the Conference to result in success. Thank you for your attention.