1 Country Statement By The Special Envoy of the President of Timor -Leste, H. E. J. Ramos -Horta, former Head of State, 1996 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, at the High Level Segment of COP 21 and MOP11 Paris, 7-11 December 2015 2 Mr. President, Heads Government, Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, The impact of climate change - floods, droughts, landslides, and sea level rise - is increasingly affecting our lives. The most vulnerable are those with limited fina ncial, technological and human capacities to adapt to the impacts of climate change. This leads to food insecurity, famine, destruction of infrastructure, human displacement and further poverty in developing countries, especially in the "Least Developed C ountries", with limited capacity on adaptation. In addition, it has been clearly established that many small island nations face eminent risk of been submerged by rising sea levels in coming years. In Timor -Leste, our people are already experiencing the impacts of climate change such as floods and landslides, 3 soil erosion and drought, in addition to sea level rise, impacting on key development. Our agriculture sector on which most of our people depend for survival is severely affected by soil erosion, sedimentation, lands lides and floods. These climate change related events generate food insecurity, water shortage as well as destruction of infrastructure. In addition, sea level rises at least 5.5 mm per year which damages our coastal infrastructure as well as threatening some part of coastal cities. Climate change is a global phenomenon requiring effective global solidarity and partnership; we must agree on a global strategy towards addressing both adaptation and mitigation. The principles and provisi ons of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) shall be applied for this new agreement, including the principle of "Common but Differentiated Responsibilities" and respective capabilities. Under the new agreement, developed count ry parties must reduce their emissions by at least 45% below the 4 1990 levels by 2025 and 95% by 2050. Timor -Leste associates itself with the position articulated by over 100 States calling for a 1.5 degree goal. We believe that a goal above 1.5 degree is inconsistent with urgency and gravity of the situation and with the eloquent speeches we heard in this august forum. At the same time, developed country parties must fulfill their commitments under the Convention to provide finance, technology and capacit y building for developing country parties in order to support adaptation and mitigation actions, especially the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and Small Island developing States (SIDS). Unfortunately since the onset of the global financial crisis that b egan in the US and spread around the world at the end of 2008, which remains without an end in sight, ODA budgets have been severely slashed. Commendable exceptions to the draconian cuts in ODA are Sweden, Norway and the UK; the UK is the only G7/G20 coun try to have increased its share of ODA to 0,7 of GDP and it must be warmly applauded. China has also 5 increased ODA through grants and soft loans to countries across the world. I am at a loss to decipher this puzzle: how a rich country can thoroughly reduc e its ODA, and the same time deliver on the promises on financing under the new Climate Change Treaty. Sustainable development and sustainable environment are the two faces of the same coin, they are intertwined. In Timor -Leste we acknowledge the generous assistance provided to us over the years by our development partners; however we must also state that we haven't had an entirely positive experience with the cumbersome and overly bureaucratic international financing mechanisms that spends more mo ney on itself than in the recipient countries. We urge this conference to resist the creation of new layers of rules and regulations and of financing mechanisms that will impose additional burden on LDCs and vulnerable countries. We agree with the need fo r strict transparency and accountability, but this has to be balanced with the need for more agile decision making 6 and timely response. Mr. President, We also need to establish an international mechanism on Loss and Damage under the new agreement aiming at addressing irreversible and permanent losses and damages as well as human displacement caused by the impacts of climate change. Additionally we expect the Developed Country Parties and Annex II Countries Parties to provide sustained financial support f or formulation and implementation of National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) as well as for the implementation of National Adaptation Program of Actions (NAPA) in LDC countries. Regarding mitigation, Timor -Leste is ready to have a low carbon development path und er the new agreement, including renewable energy use and reforestation. With regard to adaptation, we are implementing our national adaptation priorities under the NAPA in agriculture and food security, water resource management and improving adaptive ru ral infrastructure. 7 We will submit our Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) to the UNFCCC Secretariat covering the above -mentioned adaptation and mitigation measures. Lastly we would like to express our gratitude to all parties who have pr ovided financial support for the NAPA implementation as well as National Communication in Timor -Leste. You all are in our prayers; we pray to the Almighty and the Merciful to bestow on us all wisdom, humility and courage to change course, to reverse the i mmense damage we humans have done to our Common Home, to build more sustainable and equitable development for all, to end all conflicts and build durable peace. END