Lima, 09. Dec ember 2014 Mr President, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, The recent IPCC reports have confirmed that the human impact to climate change is clear. Urgent and significant action to reduce o ur greenhouse gas emissions is needed to limit both climate change and i ts impacts. Without such action climate change will become increasingly more severe. Ladies and Gentlemen, There is o nly o ne year to the Paris Climate Conference to deliver the 2015 agreement – a single global legally binding agreement applicable to all. This agreement should encourage the highest possible level of ambition by all countries, in a way that is fair, effic ient and transparent and enables to capture easily any increase in ambition. It is essential that all Parties come forwa rd with their intended national ly determined contributions in accorda nce with the timetable agreed at the Warsaw Climate Conference last year. The European Union will communicate its intended nationally determined contribution in accordance with the time table. We call on all other major economies, together with other Parties that are ready to do so, to follow the same timetable. Progress is needed here in Lima. We need to adopt a decision that will provide the guidance to all parties to communicate their targets in a comparable manner well in advance of Paris. It is important that Lima agrees on the draft elements for a negotiating text of the 2015 Agreement. In our view, economic growth does not have to come at the expense of the environment. Estonia has successfully decoupled economic growth from emissions: we have also cut our carbon dioxide emissions by half while the real GDP has doubled since 1990. In the last few years, Estonia has invested 400 million euros into climate change mitigation projects – this is more than 2 per cent of our annual GDP. Our climate policy has also had significant co - benefits - improved air quality and smaller energy bills. Therefore, we believe that it is possible to find and agree upon the balance between economic growth and environmental protection. In addition to domestic actions, we have funded a daptation efforts in Bhutan, Afganistan and SIDS countries of the Pacific. We have already decided to continue with simi lar projects next year. Dear colleagues, if we act together, urgently and at the global level, we can achieve the below 2°C objective. We can do it in a way that promotes sustainable economic growth. The positive side effects of the process will be improved air quality and human health, better e nergy security and resilience, positive impact on ecosystems and sufficiency of natural resources. If we are ready for ambitious steps in tackling climate change and implement ing our policy accordingly, the positive results will definitely follow. Thank you!