Statement of His Excellency Peter Žiga Minister of Environment of the Slovak Republic At the COP 21, Paris, France, 8 December 201 5 Dear Mr. President, Excellences, honorable ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, let me express my sincere gratitude to the Government of France and especially to His Excellency Laurent Fabius and his team for excellent organisation of this conference and warm reception and hospitality. Let me start bluntly: we need to adopt Paris Agreement. We need to secure future for next generations without catastrophic climate change consequences. And this means we need to keep raising of global temperature under control and not to exceed 2°C as scie nce tells us. We cannot afford the luxury in years to come to discussing technicalities without solid framework. The time is now for political decisions and political courage to take responsibility and come up with a new global and fair climate regime. The regime that delivers credible signals of our determination and commitment to the outside world – investors, businesses and the general public. Slovakia as the Member State of the European Union has agreed on its share of responsibility. It is included in the INDCs submitted jointly as the EU in March this year. The ambitious EU package sets out legally binding economy wide emission reduction target of at least 40% domestic reduction by 2030 compared to 1990. Last year was loaded with negotiations. Now it is time to deliver results. We should leave aside our differences and try to find compromises on mitigation, finance, differentiation, long -term vision and other regrettably unresolved issues. Current text has it all there – we need to take this last step, leave our well - fortified positions and brave ourselves for adopting the text with all necessary elements. Maybe not perfect, maybe not all of it to our liking, but the text which is ambitious, durable with legal force and globa l. The urgency of climate change calls for much greater immediate action before the new agreement comes into force. It is our priority to strengthen the process to enhance the pre -2020 mitigation ambition. Next year, we all meet again at COP22 in Marrakes h. At that time, Slovakia will preside over the European Union and I believe that our work will focus on implementing the new agreement to be adopted in this wonderful city and bearing its name. Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, We are here from countrie s with very diverse backgrounds, in different circumstances, unique history and cultural heritage. But some of the threats are common to all and climate change is such a threat. The world is changing and so must we. We need to unite our efforts, and Slovakia, nonetheless small in size, is ready to take its share of responsibility and act accordignly. Here in Paris, we have a chance to adopt a historic global agreement on climate change applicable to all. Let not allow this great opportunity to slip t hrough our fingers.