1 Statement by the Minister for Climate Change, Government of Pakistan CoP -21, Paris: December 8, 2015 Bismillah -ar-Rahman -nir-Rahim! Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen : Assalam -alaikum, good morning and bon jour! I would like to begin by congratulating the Government of France for hosting this very important Conference and to thank it and the people of France for their generous hospitality. I would also like to convey our deepest appreciation for the French Government’s tremendous effort s during the past year to make this Conference fully responsive to our aspirations. Mr. President: Climate change is indeed the defining issue of our time. Left unaddressed, i t could seriously undermine the development gains achieved over the past decades, push ing people back to poverty and misery. The L eaders ’ Summit at the start of this Conference has inject ed clear political will and direc tion to this process. In his Statement on that occasion, Prime Minister Mohammed Nawaz Sharif clearly outline d his vision and priorit ies and reiterated Pakistan’s 2 commitment to the development of a responsive global climate governance framework. Mr. President: Pakistan’s per capita emission of green house gases is one of the lowest in the world. Yet it is placed in the extremely vulnerable category by a host of climate change indices. In recent years, Pakistan has witnessed the vagaries of climate change with growing regularity and destructive ferocity. Droughts, desertification, glacial melt, sea -level rise and r ecurrent floods are all manifestations of climate -induced phenomena. Besides the tragic human and material cost s, these threats also impede our ability to promote sustainable growth and development, and to ensure economic prosperity for our people. Mr. President: The Government of Pakistan is fully committed to cope with the negative fall -outs of climate change. 'Vision 2025', our blueprint for a future -oriented and growth -centric roadmap for Pakistan, clearly recognizes global warming and climate change as priority areas for effective action by the government. The National Climate Change Policy and its Framewor k for Implementation for the period 2014 -2030 serve to integrat e climate -friendly policies in our national economic and development planning. Our mitigation measure s cover all sectors of the economy. 3 In the energy sector, for example, we are working to ch ange the energy mix, develop renewable energy sources and increase the share of nuclear and hydro electric power to reduce carbon emissions. More tha n 2000 MW of wind electricity will come on line next year. We have also established a 10,000 -acre Solar Park, which will generate 1000 MW, and will be one of the biggest solar power projects in the world. To offset carbon emissions i n the transport sector, we have operationalized mass transit systems in two metropolitan cities of Pakistan. Mr. President: Availability of adequate finance is at the core of the battle to confront the adverse impacts of climate change. In Pakistan alone, we require up to US$ 14 billion annually to adapt to climate change impacts. A clear road map for delivering on the financia l commitments of US $ 100 billion by 2020 is therefore extremely important fo r a robust and effective Paris A greement. Mr. President We are pleased with the progress made by the parties thus far in reaching an agreement. For a win -win outcome, we need to ensure undivided focus on strengthening the Climate Convention. We must adhere to the fundamental principles enshrined therein, including (1) “Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and respective capabilities”; and (2) full consideration to specific needs and special circumstances of 4 developing countries, especially those, like Pakistan, which are extremely vulnerable to climate change. The final agreement should be holistic, covering both adaptation and mitigation a spects in a balanced mann er. It should also provide for transfer of affordable technology to developing countries, along with capacity building, and incorporate an effective “loss and damage” mechanism. Mr. President, We have a n historic opportunity in Paris to arrest and reverse the threatening course of climate change. Pakistan looks forward to working closely with our global partners to finalize the Paris Agreement, which enjoys both strong political ownership and broad social acceptability. On behalf of the Government of Pakistan, Mr. President, let me express our fullest confidence in your leadership and assure you of our complete support for the successful outcome of this Conference. Thank you.