Statement Of Head of delegation of Ukraine on COP20/CMP10 High Level Distinguish Delegates, Your Excellency Secretary General, Your Excellencies, Global Climate Change is one of the most important environmental and, at the same time, social -economic problems, that civilization is facing now. Humanity has no right to ignore it to ensure its survival. Ukraine is taking an acting role and continuously making its contribution to the efforts of international community on absorption and reductions of anthro pogenic GHG emission into atmosphere, aiming to limit dangerous global temperature raise. Ukraine, as an Annex 1 Party to UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and Annex B Party to the Kyoto Protocol, overachieved its GHG emissions reductions commitmen ts in the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. And participates in the second commitment period with quantified commitment. We find it’s important to operationalize the second commitment period expeditiously and for that reason we are already eng aged and stands ready for constructive and effective discussions between all Parties on implications of issues related to accounting and reporting for second commitment period. It’s important to have robust continued accounting and reporting system taking into account principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. Ukraine express its sincere hope that decision on accounting and reporting system for the second commitment period of Kyoto Protocol will be taken here in Lim a, which would lead to prompt implementation of second commitment period by all Parties. Ukraine is also an active participant of new global comprehensive, legally binding climate agreement negotiations process under UNFCCC and is making every effort to en sure this new agreement will be developed in 2015 and comes into force in 2020 by all Parties of the Convention. New global climate agreement should be applicable to all and legally binding for all Parties of the Convention, based on the principle of commo n but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. We think, that efforts on national level must be implemented by all countries, taking into consideration various factors, such as social and economic development indicators, potential to pr event adverse effects of climate change, financial capabilities, etc. Additionally, all previous activities to prevent adverse effects of climate change should be taken into account and reflected in the new global agreement provisions. As well as real GHG emission reductions achieved by countries, who is undertaking transition to the market economies (Economies in Transitions) caused be unprecedented drop of the standards of living and abundances decrease populations/negative population growth since the tim e, when Convention came into force. Ukraine contribution to combat global climate change is over 8 billion tons of CO2 equivalent of total GHG emission reductions, only for the period of 1990 -2008. At the same time, each Party of the new agreement should t ake independent, nationally determined decision on potential contributions on emission reductions and limitations, based on social -economic development parameters, standard of living and life style. That is why, Ukraine supports bottom -up approach to poten tial identifying contributions and pledges, so that each country would be presenting its’ justified contributions to form total ambition goal of new climate agreement. Ukraine sticks to the position that each Party must take legally binding commitments in the new global agreement. Ukraine believes that new global agreement would ensure the continuity and further development of all flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol and build upon them new markets and non -markets instruments of fulfilling commitments. Clear reporting rules and procedures should be applicable to all Parties of the new agreement. Ukraine considers, that adaptation to climate change should become one of the core elements of new agreement. The importance of international cooperation in adaptation to climate change must be reflected in new agreement, including accumulation and synthesis of information on best available instruments and technologies in this sector, and ensuring broad access to this information by all Parties. I want to ensur e, Ukraine continues active participation in new global climate agreement negotiations on intended nationally determined contributions for all Parties of the Convention and stands ready to presents its contributions, according to the Conference of the Part ies decisions to be made here in Lima and further relevant decisions. Thank you for your attention!