STATEMENT by H.E. Mr. Milorad Šćepanović Permanent Representative of Montenegro to the United Nations 20th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Conve ntion on Climate Change (UNFCC), Lima, Peru, 1 -12 December 2014 Please check against delivery Mr President, Mr Secretary General of United Nations, Your Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is an honor and a pleasure for me to address you on behalf of Montenegro and to thank our host Minister of Environment and President of COP20 and Government of Peru for organizing this important high level meeting which will, I hope come to its successful conclusion. Climate change is a fundamental issue today, an issue that needs to be addressed in concerted and ambitious way. We have gathered here to reaffirm the importance of implementation of the obligations we have accepted and to use this meeting as final push towards conclusion of a global climate agreement in 2015 thro ugh the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The impact of climate change on natural, as well as on social systems, at both regional and global level, has been a matter of thorough analyses. Natural disasters do no t acknowledge nationa l borders, as well as differences between countries in political, religious, social and economic terms. Clima te change beca me one of the most serious threats. We need to revive and maintain political momentum and to undertake urgent and comprehensive actions to meet climate targets. Therefore we must keep temperature rise within 2 degree Celsius and enabl e sustainable economic development based on efficient use of natural resources. A number of alerts indicate that in the absence of further mitigation, there is a 40 % chance of exceeding 4°C warming. Adoption of key decisions to build a more predictable future requires strong political will and determination of each and every country. No matter how insoluble this rebus may seem, and no matter how mutual ly conflicting the goals themselves sometimes may seem, the generations to come expect answers from us. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, the countries are either responsibly approaching the implementation of necessary measures as a response to the challenges of the modern times, or they are postponing them for some future times. Montenegro has recognized its role. We consider necessa ry that all state parties of the conventions are to be actively involved in the fight against negative impacts of climate cha nge. As a developing country, Montenegro has already declared support for the European Union endeavor to reduce GHG emissions. Thou gh being a UNF CCC member country without an obligation to reduce its GHG emission, we have been taking i nto consideration various policies, such as environmental or technology improvement, based on which we have drafted strategic documents for reduction of the GHG emission in the key sectors. Our technological capacities do not allow us to contribute more significantly to GHG emissions reduction. However, d ue to a relatively high degree of forest and vegetation cover, we have the potential to contribute t o stabilizing CO2 content in the atmosphere. Power generation and energy consumption in industries and transport are the main source of GHG emissions in Montenegro. We have defined measures for reducing and mitigating emissions through our national policie s, focusing primarily on technology and knowledge transfer. Since we are not able to ensure the required level of investment in technological modernization within the national frameworks, our attention is focused on public -private partnerships which arises as a crucial concept. We need to live within the boundaries of the available economic resources, and we learn how to live with in the environmental standards. We have put o ur focus on rational use of energy, increased use of renewable – alternative sources of energy and efficient waste management, and the adoption of new legislation in line with the EU requirements. Through use of hydropower potentials for electricity production we have set a g oal that 33% of our energy must come from renewable sources. In that light, w e are in process of drafting first Nati onal Strategy on climate change until 2030, aiming at achieving synergy of relevant sectorial policies, in line with EU energy and climate goals for 2030. As a Mediterranean country, Montenegro belongs t o the group of countries vulnerable to climate changes. Frequency of natural disasters, including floods, is on the rise, which also means that related material, infrastructure and other types of losses, but most significantly human suffering, is also on t he rise. And it is usually poor and marginalized people who suffer first and worst from climate change. Just recently we witnessed the devastating consequences floods brought to our immediate neighbors. So in order to successfully address the overall impo rtance and urgency of climate change in the elaboration of post 2015 development agenda, we will continue to advocate for a stand -alone goal on climate change goal with strong and ambitious targets and indicators. Agriculture, tourism and urban planning a re the most vulnerable sectors seeking for urgent adapting measures. Therefore, we welcome increased attention to national and global efforts related to climate change. We are carrying out a series of pilot activities in order to enhance adaptation capacities, which prescribe adaptation measures as part of the development an d spatial planning. We es pecially advocate stronger focus on building resilience of the most vulnerable ecosystems, including coastal and mountain ones. We also welcome good examples and practices of applying ecosystem -based approaches in coastal zone management, sustainable water management and early warning systems. International solidarity and commitment in resolving the issue of climate changes on the basis of the p rinciples of the Convention by fulfilling common, but yet different responsibilities is encouraging in a sense that implementation of the defined goals can be accessed through a specific international funds, both within the United Nations Framework Convent ion on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and outside this framework. Defining financial framework is key for a success of future agreement. Therefore, I believe that we have enough time before the Paris conference to define other segments of new international platfo rm through the constructive efforts of all of us. We have an ambitiou s, complex and responsible task but I am certain that we can live up to it and that, upon our return from Lima, we will demonstrate the determination and responsibility to leave to the future generations the heritage of a cleaner, healthier, safer and prosperous economy. Thank You!