1 Statement delivered by the Honorable Vice President of the Republic of Sierra Leone Dr. Victor Bockari Foh, Head of Delegation to the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP 21/CMP 11) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, November 30 to 11 December 201 5 Mr. President, Excellences, Minister s of Government, Distinguished D elegates, Ladies and G entlemen, On behalf of the President and the people of the R epublic of Sierra Leone, I wish to take this opportunity t o express our profound condolences on the loss of life and property as a result of the recent terrorist attack in Paris. Our thoughts and prayers are with the government and people of France. We also wish to convey our sincere gratitude to the G overnment of France for hosting this Conference and for the hospitality given to my delegation since we arrived in this beautiful city of Paris. Mr. President Sierra Leone is among the third most vulnerable countries in the world to the impact s of climate change, and as a Least Developed Countr y with a historically low emission of greenhouse gas es suffers disproportionately from the impacts of climate change. Having won the fight against the Ebola pandemic that left an indelible mark on our country, the flash flood of sixteenth September, 2015 hit the city of Freetown with loss of life, property and displacement of over nine thousand people. The resettlement of these affected flood victims has had an immense toll on the country’s economy. This impact has significantly distorted our economic trajectory which was among the fast est growing economies in the World in 2013. 2 Mr. President In response to the decisions adopted at the N ineteenth and Twentieth sessions of the conference of the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on climate change, Sierra Leone submitted its intended nationally determined contributions, which in addition to its green growth development pathway as enshrined in the national Agenda for Prosperity is a firm commitment to limit warm ing to at least 1.5 degree Celsius. MR. President Sierra Leone align s with the positions of the Least Developed Countries, the African Group and the G77 and China here in Paris. We call on all state Parties to reach an international legally -binding agreement in order to achiev e an acceptable stabilization limit of greenhouse gas emissions and to avoid untold suffering from the devastating effects of irreversible climate change impacts. Mr. President We fully support the established negotiating tracts and sincerely hope these negotiations will culminate into a balanced legally binding agreement demonstrating clear commitment from all Parties to sustain long term action to fight climate change. In particular, the following issues are o f significant concern to Sierra Leone. First, a daptation to and mitigation of climate change should be given high and equal priority for Least Developed Countries, if we are to achieve the sustainable development goals and poverty reduction. Second, Financial and technological support should be given to vulnerable countries to offset the adverse impacts of climate change 3 through technological cooperation and building of the necessary human and institutional capacities. Third, Sierra Leone urges devel oped countries to provide incentives to low emitting economies like ours to help us continue to develop on a low emission pathway, and to s upport the development of clean development mechanism (CDM) projects with clear rules and guidelines on fast track fi nancing. Fourth, the promotion of research and systematic observation and climate change e ducation, training and public awareness is crucial for Least Developed countries. Fifth, Sierra Leone urges parties to integrate the issues of loss and damage into the final negotiated agreement as a response measure to the catastrophic impacts of climate change. Mr. President Sierra Leone recognizes that mainstreaming of gender across the whole spectrum of issues in the negotiating text is essential in meeting the climate challenges and achieving the long term objective of a global agreement on climate change. Mr. President, Distinguished Delegates, ladies and Gentlemen, In closing, let me implore our friends from the d eveloped countries to take full advantage of our intended actions and provide the catalytic instruments in the form of technical and independent, predictable, sustained and accessible financial resources so that the objecti ves of the new global agreement can be achieved. Let me assure this conference of Sierra Leone’s un wavering cooperation for the best outcome of this 21st Conference of the Parties. I thank you for your attention.