National Statement of Singapore Delivered by Masago s Zulkifli, Minister for the Environment and Water Resources, a t the UNFCCC COP-21 High Level Segment, 7 December 2015, Paris, France Mr President, Urgency of Action 1 Allow me to join others in expressing the solidar ity of the people of Singapore with the citizens of France over the t errorist incidents in Paris in November. We live in a troubled world, bu t here at COP-21 we have a rare opportunity to work together to address one of the foremost challenges facing our planet. We should not undere stimate the potential of a universal agreement that binds all Parties of the Convention to undertake climate action. Singapore strongly suppo rts a rules-based multilateral system in this regard. Universality of the Agreement 2 We have on the table the INDCs of more than 180 countries covering over 95% of global emissions. While we sh are the concern that these pledges do not yet limit temperature rise to below 2° C or 1.5° C, it serves as a strong foundation for structured intern ational collaboration towards that goal. The innovative bottom-up approa ch that Parties agreed at COP-19 in Warsaw has managed to foster th e confidence and trust needed for collective global action. We must now match these pledges with a global agreement that promotes the a bility to raise ambition over time and bring our world closer towar ds climate safety. This means helping Parties achieve the ambition rep resented in the INDCs. 3 An ambitious agreement is only meaningful if all Parties are on board and act coherently, recognising the full spec trum of climate actions. Reducing GHG emissions is not only about mitigating emissions from our industrial sectors; it can also be about protecting our forests and preventing peat land fires. Peat lands are major carbon sinks, storing up to 20 times more carbon than trop ical rainforests on normal mineral soils. However, with peat land fire s caused by slash and burn practices of errant companies, they are no lon ger carbon sinks but a source of CO 2 emissions. Some studies have estimated that the pe at fires in Southeast Asia this year alone have releas ed over one Gigatonne of CO 2 into the atmosphere. This is almost 20% of the expected emissions reductions from INDCs in 2030 1. Another report estimated that the emissions of these fires by erra nt companies in Indonesia over this period are more than the total annual CO 2 emissions of Germany 2. This is also comparable to the emissions of Japa n. 4 Such peat land fires produce not only GHG emissio ns but also smoke, resulting in haze pollution. This haze pollu tion has had serious social, economic and health impacts in countries ac ross Southeast Asia. Hundreds of thousands have been treated for acute r espiratory infections; schools have had to close, and business es, as well as air 1 According to the synthesis report on the aggregate effect of the intended nationally determined contr ibutions by the UNFCCC secretariat, the level of global GHG emissions asso ciated with the INDCs is expected to be lower than the emission level in pre- INDC trajectories, by 5.5 Gt CO2 eq, when both cond itional and unconditional INDCs are included. 2 References: http://www.wri.org/blog/2015/10/indone sia%E2%80%99s-fire-outbreaks-producing-more-daily-e missions-entire- us-economy; https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/ene rgy-environment/wp/2015/10/20/fueled-by-el-nino-car bon-emissions- from-indonesian-peat-fires-are-rising-fast/. Estima tes from Guido van der Werf from VU University Amst erdam. travel, have been adversely affected. The burning o f forests and peat lands have also resulted in the loss of biodiversit y and natural habitats. 5 Our region is not the only one to witness such de leterious transboundary effects on our global effort to cut e missions; therefore, we strongly support the emphasis for this agreement to bring a robust measurement, reporting and verification system with a facilitative approach to build capacity. Amongst others, capaci ty to combat illegal burning and other forms of abuse in the land sector s will address this recurring problem. Singapore’s Efforts 6 As a responsible global citizen, Singapore is com mitted to play our part in the global fight against climate change. Our INDC pledges to reduce our Emissions Intensity by 36% from 2005 lev els by 2030, and stabilise our emissions with the aim of peaking aro und the same time. Singapore already generates relatively low levels o f carbon emissions per GDP dollar, ranking 113 th out of 140 countries 3 worldwide. We only contribute 0.11% to global emissions, yet we contin ue to deepen and widen our South-South contributions in technical co operation, sharing our sustainable development experiences. So far, al most 11,000 officials from developing countries have been trained in clim ate change issues in Singapore. We will continue to expand capacity buil ding courses in both mitigation and adaptation, with a focus on helping fellow developing countries implement the Paris Agreement. 3 Source: IEA Key World Energy Statistics, 2014. Mr President, Forging a successful Paris outcome 7 It is our sincere hope, that with the five remain ing days here in Paris, Parties can set aside differences and seize the rare opportunity we have to forge a meaningful global agreement. Wi th 195 negotiating Parties, it is understandable that not all our aspi rations will be similarly aligned. However, we believe it is possible to bui ld on the unity of purpose to find the pragmatism we require to reach compromise. We need to recognise that a compromise at these negoti ations does not necessarily come at the expense of a good outcome. We are building the foundations upon which to start a global journe y, not negotiating an end-point. Conclusion 8 Mr President, I conclude with an assurance to you of Singapore’s commitment and support for a successful conclusion to this week’s work. Please also accept the deep appreciation of our del egation to the government and people of France for the warm hospit ality and arrangements at this Conference......