Address: Rruga e Durr ësit, Nr. 27, Tiranë, - Tel: 2 270 630, Fax: 2 270 627 - www.moe.gov.al DEPUTY M I N I S T E R 20th session of the Conference of the Parties of UNFCCC (COP20)and the 10th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP 10) Distinguished President, Excellencie s, Ladies and G entlemen, Negative climate trends, such as temperature rising and frequency increase in extreme natural phenomena: floods, heat waves, or forest fires have unfortunately set the stage for inflicting consequences, especially for the most v ulnerable and financially unfortunate social strata. In this sense, efforts to integrate climate change issues into all sectors of policy making, develop ment of e fficient policies that enable implementation of measures that reduce risks and promote resiliency remain at the heart of our attention and action. In this context, combining individual efforts with collective planning and implementation is of crucial importance and co -benefitting. Adresa: Rruga e Durr ësit, Nr. 2 7, Tiranë, - Tel: 2 270 630, Fax: 2 270 627 - www.moe.gov.al As part of UNFCCC obligations, Albania has submitted the 1st and 2nd National Communication documents, and the 3rd National Communication is in its final preparation stage, calling for increased cooperation among all sectors: energy, agriculture, forestry, waste management, transport, etc. Two NAMA -s (Nation al Appropriate Mitigation Action), supported by UNDP are under development, in the final stage, and expected to be submitted to the UNFCCC very soon :  Implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan in the residential and commercial sector) a nd  Replacing fossil fuels with non -hazardous waste in cement industry in Albania. In the frame of EU integration process, Albania: a candidate country since June 2014, can count a series of environmental landmarks, especially in transposition of Europea n legislation into the national one. The National Plan for European Integration 2014 – 2020, sets clear targets for transposition of EU Climate & Energy package. This will in turn consolidate the grounds for Albania’s sustainable development path. In t he frame of United Nations Climate Change Convention, Albania associated itself with EU positions, and has committed to:  Define the National I ntended Determine Contribution for emission reduction until 2020; Adresa: Rruga e Durr ësit, Nr. 2 7, Tiranë, - Tel: 2 270 630, Fax: 2 270 627 - www.moe.gov.al  Transpose EU Energy & Climate Change package in to national legislation  Increase renewable energy resources to 35 %, until 2020;  Increase energy efficiency to 9 % until 2018. The Albanian Ministry of Environment, in cooperation with close partners, such as: EU, World Bank, GIZ, UNDP, UNEP, etc., is c urrently implementing a number of climate change -related projects, which seek to:  promote green economy  promote solar energy, as a powerful renewable energy resource in Albania,  strengthening national capacities to develop low -carbon strategies, in line w ith EU membership requirements;  establishing a network of information exchange, methodologies, experiences and best national and regional practices Energy remains a strategic sector for any economy; 90 % of national energy production comes from hydropowe r plants, yet Albania intends to increase energy production from hydro resources, through increasing adequate investments in the sector. However, studies show that a 20 % decrease in rainfall until 2050 will lead to a 15 % reduction of energy production from bigger hydropower plants, and 20 % from smaller ones. In view of this, reliance on hydropower energy only remains a challenge for us. Adresa: Rruga e Durr ësit, Nr. 2 7, Tiranë, - Tel: 2 270 630, Fax: 2 270 627 - www.moe.gov.al The National Energy Strategy highlights the need to diversify and increase energy production, through upgrading national assets, using new technologies, increasing energy efficiency, promoting eco -building and other energy renewable sources: solar, wind, biomass, etc. Concluding, as a prospective EU country and non -annex I country, we are much interested in outcome of Lima negotiations, specifically on drafting and adoption by 2015 of a global climate agreement, applying to all the countries, and the identification of the ways to raise the ambition of global greenhouse gas emission cuts between now and the end of t his decade. Dear participants, I would like to reiterate Albania's commitments to address climate change issues and offer its contribution towards, carbon emissions reductions. Thank you for your attention !