1 Statement by Senator the Honourabl e Winston Garraway COP21 Distinguished Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen. Mr. President, 1. On behalf of the Government and P eople of Grenada and my delegation attending this historic Conference, I thank you, and the Governm ent and P eople of France for the kind hospitality and excellent arrangements made for this meeting in these difficult times. 2. Grenada expresses full solidarity with the Government and People of France. 3. Grenada subscribes to the statement made by the Mald ives on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States. 4. We are here in Paris, to agree on an ambitious A greement to guarantee planetary integrity and the wellbeing of all its inhabitants. Our youth and future generations are counting on us. 2 5. Mr P resident, we can do it and be assured of Grenada’s full commitment to work with you, to achieve this desired outcome. An outcome to enhance the full and effective impleme ntation of the C onvention. 6. We are aware that negotiations so far have been very difficult and slow, with p rotracted technical, procedural, political and abstract debates. 7. But Mr President, as we debate here, the most vul nerable amongst us, Small Island D eveloping States are already reeling under the impacts of Climate change, due to our unique cha racteristics and special circumstances. 8. For us, climate change is a survival phenomenon. A phenomen on which already hits at the foundation of our livelihoods. Our unique and threatened ecosystems and species are critical to our survival and are now nea ring their tipping points. 9. A phenomenon that can destroy, permanently and irreparably, our economies and homelands. 3 10. That is why Mr President, a global temperature Goal, of well below 1.5 degrees Celsius through appropriate levels of mitigation action is sacrosanct. 11. That is why, we argue for loss and damage to be anchore d in the A greement and for the further strengthening of the Warsaw International Mechanism. 12. That is why, we call for strong and urgent mitigation and adaptation actions and means of imp lementation, with periodic and structured reviews and enhanced transp arency through a Legally Binding Agreement. 13. Mr President, as we accept the document placed before us as the basis for negotiations this week, we appeal to our partners to internalize the perspectives of the most vulnerable. 14. As we engage constructively on this text, we must signal that we cannot sign unto, that which conscripts us, to total dismay and destruction. 4 15. We engage with the full realization, bolstered by the pronouncements made by the Heads of Governments in the first day of this conference, that there is the political will and commitment to agree on an outcome, that guarantees the survival, of all. I thank you!