1 Statement by Mr. Phouvong Luangxaysana, Director General, Department of Disaster Management and Climate Change, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Lao PDR, at the High -Level Segment COP 20 Lima 2014 United Nations Climate Change Conference 9th to 11th December 2014 Thank you Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, At the outset we would like to express our deepest appreciation to the Government and people of Peru for the warm welcome and hospitality extended to our delegation. Mr. President, Like many other nations, Lao PDR as a L east Developed Country is highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Because of its low adaptive capacity it has experienced hardships with an exponential increase of unexpected and extreme weat her conditions bringing unusual sequences of floods and droughts. Increasingly, devastating losses to crops, livestock, infrastructure and humans challenge the lives of the Lao people. We are deeply concerned that climate change develops as a serious threat to the survival of our culture, the ecological balance of our natural systems and the dangers to the social and economic development efforts of our country. We believe that any further delay in taking strong action to tackle climate change will on ly lead to greater adverse impacts, making it difficult or impossible for us to adapt. The losses and 2 damages will exceed our own potential and efforts as a L east Developed Country. There is an immediate need for all of us at this COP20 to overcome differ ences, and to fully recognize the scientific data and to respond to the facts on the ground. Coming from a country that has no historical responsibility for the release of G reen House Gases, we strongly appeal finding acceptable solutions and compromises to urgently reach a common framework with effective measures to address climate change, as it is unfolding in our country and the neighboring countries of the Mekong region. Lao PDR claims the imperative need for adaptive technology and the support to adv ance our country's own capacity for technology development, especi ally in the agricultural sector. Mr. President, May I also take this opportunity to express our Government’s full commitment to the world's collective efforts to mitigate and to adapt to climate change. The Lao P DR is a country rich in forests, rivers, mineral and other natural resources, and as such we have a special responsibility to preserve and to protect our biodiversity and our ecosystems. Not only because they are essential for ou r economy and the livelihoods of our people, but equally so for the entire Mekong river basin, and the world as a whole. It is a core element of our policies and action plans to promote green growth of our economy, to build up systems for disaster prevent ion and management, and to support sustainable social 3 and economic development, especially in the rural areas of the country. Lao PDR has identified priority actions for mitigation and will undertake steps towards a low carbon economy. Climate change is be ing mainstreamed in our national legislation and development planning process. Lao PDR will endeavor to put forward its INDC in due course. The INDC will reflect our national circumstance in line with the principle of common but differentiated responsibi lities and respective capabilities. Mr. President, With all the good work done lead ing up to this COP 20, there is the opportunity to make real progress. We call on all the delegates to make significant advances through the new climate agreement towards r eaching a legally binding document in 2015, and may I urge all of us to put our best efforts into realizing this. In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm the strong commitment of Lao PDR in working closely with all countries to realize the ultimate goal of the c onvention. Again, I wish to emphasize the urgency of making a meaningful breakthrough at this COP20 allowing this conference in Lima to be considered a very successful one by the citizens of our nation and all other countries in the world. I thank you for your attention.