1 Country Statement By The Government of Timor -Leste Delivered to the High Level Segment COP 20 and MOP 10 in Lima, Peru 1-12 December 2014 Mr. President, Honorable Heads of State and Government, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a gre at hon our to be here representing the Gove rnment of Timor -Leste at this 20th session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and 10th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol. I would also like to express my gratitude to the Government and peopl e of Peru for the hospitality in hosting this impo rtant Internationa l Conference, and sincere appreciation to the Executive Secreta ry of UNFCCC for her leadership in convening this high level event. Mr. President, Climate change has been seen as one of the world’s development challenge to day. It is bringing catastrophes to our lives and livelihoods, as well as threatening our socio economy and ecosystem. The most vulnerable and the most affected are those who have limited financial, technological and h uman capacities to adapt to the impacts of climate change. Mr. President, In Timor -Leste, the latest study under the Initial National Communication (INC) indicated that climate in the country has been changed over the last 3 decades. 2 The impacts of cli mate change such as floods, landslides, soil erosion and drought as well as seal level raise have been increased over the time which have affected to our key development sectors, including agriculture, food security, water resources and infrastructure. Mr. President, It is the fact that climate change is caused by green house gasses that are mostly emitted by developed country parties. In this regard, w e urge all developed country parties to have legal commitment in reducing their e missions under the new Protocol, as well as urging deve loping emitting nations to do so, while request the least emitting countries such as the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) to take actions on low carbon development path. In addition, the developed country parties should have legal co mmitment under the new Protocol to provide financial, technological and capacity building support for the developing countries, especially the LDCs and Small Island developing States ( SIDS ) in order to assist both a daptation and mitigation. Mr. P resident, We also need to incorporate the Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss and Damage into the new agreement in order to reach financial and technological commitment from developed country parties to developing countries in addressing the implementat ion of the functions of the mechanism, including addressing rehabilitation, risk transfer and compensation. In addition, all parties need to reaffirm their efforts in addressing the ratification processes for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol in order to come into force as soon as possible with aim to close the emission gap before 2020. It is also critically important to parties to take decisions here in Lima on technology transfer for pre -2020 emission reduction such as renewable energy and energy efficiency from develop ed nations to the developing countries in order to close the emission gap before 2020. Mr. President, 3 We must also take decisions here in Lima on finance, technology and capacity build ing support for adaptation and mitiga tion in LDCs and SIDS. We urge parties to take decision s on simplification of mechanism and procedure s for accessing climate finance by developing country parties with recognizing of the country ownership, direct access and transparency principles. We kindly request the Annex I country partie s to provide a sustained financial support for formulation and implementation of National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) and Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action s (NAMAs) as well as NAPA implementation, with special attent ion to the principle of sustainability, transparency, flexibility, country ownership and direct access modality. Mr. President, under the ADP, Timor -Leste is ready to undertake adaptation measures for the Intended Nationally Determ ined Contribution. In this regards, finance, technology and capacity building support from developed country parties is crucially important. Lastly, Mr. President, Timor -Leste has formulated its NAPA and INC under the UNFCCC mechanism. Currently we are implement ing the NAPA p riorities with financial support from Global Environmental Facility (GEF)/LDCF, European Union and others. In this regard, we would like to express our gratitude to all partners for their financial supports. However, the current direct access and country o wnership remain a challenge. Therefore, we would like to see direct access modality of climate fund in the new Protocol. I thank you.