1 Statement by H.E. Mr. Rabin Parmessar, Minister of Public Works of the Republic of Suriname, at the twentieth session of the Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the tenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, Lima, Peru, 10 December 2014 We thank the Government of Peru for their excellent arrangements and the Peruvian People for their warm hospitality in hosting the membership during our discussions. Mr. Chair, As stated at the Climate Summit 2014 in New York, Suriname as a developing country within the Amazon region, a relatively small population and with an abundance of natural resources, has managed to remain carbon negative. However, the current path that the world is on, continues to undermine Suriname’s ability to continue to be carbon negative in the next thirty years. The discussions here in Lima regarding carbon emissions and reductions do not reflect, as yet, the objective of collectively remaining under the 1.5 to 2 degrees Celsius global warming. For Suriname this means that the low-­‐lying coastline, where about 80% of our population and economy is concentrated, will be hit hardest, which translates into loss and damage of natural and man-­‐made systems, and hence having to relocate and rebuild our entire economy. Moreover, our forest cover, which is now over 90% of the country’s territory, is in danger of being reduced drastically, impacting all species negatively, including humans, at the national as well as the regional and global levels. If these trends continue, Suriname’s contribution to keeping the Earth’s oxygen pump working will collapse. To avert this tremendous threat, Suriname is willing to mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change by: -­‐ increasing the percentage of forest and wetlands preservation by law; -­‐ further enhancing sustainable management of forests, including our wetlands ecosystems; -­‐ avoiding undue increases of our deforestation rate; -­‐ minimizing forest degradation; and -­‐ enhancing the implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency. In terms of adaptation we find ourselves confronted with the need to do the following: -­‐ enhance the ability of our ecosystems to naturally adapt to the changing climate circumstances by removing and redesigning man made infrastructures; -­‐ take effective and innovative measures, among others, relocation of human settlements and infrastructure; and -­‐ guarantee our food security by applying innovative technologies in horticulture and the use of our arable land. 2 We will meet the urgent challenge of increasing our economic and thereby our climate resiliency by innovatively deploying both our renewable and non-­‐renewable natural resources, in order to finance the needed transition to a climate compatible society. As a small nation we refuse to contribute towards climate departure − a point where climate processes may become irreversible and huge losses are inevitable and unforeseeable. We invite global stakeholders to engage with us, as we collectively journey along the path to climate resiliency. The foregoing will only be possible if we – as a global society – commit to innovate our bilateral and multilateral cooperation models and if and when appropriate responsibility is accepted by the climate polluters for the loss and damage that is now a reality. Specifically, what needs to happen is the following: -­‐ Direct access to climate finance needs to start today. -­‐ Appropriate financial commitments need to be put in place to compensate for loss and damage, and to enable large-­‐scale mitigation and adaptation. -­‐ Technology transfer needs to be accelerated in a transparent and fair manner. -­‐ Polluting countries need to commit to meaningful and immediate emission reductions. Thank you.