The Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan: Statement at COP 20, Lima, Peru Mr. Abdul Wali Modaqiq Head of Delegation Mr. President, His Excellences Honorable Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, We all ar e gathered here in this famous beautiful city of Lima. On behalf of His Excellency, President Dr. Ashraf Ghani and people of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan a nd myself, I take this opportunity to thank the people of Lima and Peru for their extremely warm hospitality. Muchas Gracias. (Moochass Grassiass) The World Meteorological Organization’s in its recent report states that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reached a record high in 2014 and continues on an upward trend. The WMO also reported that 2014 so far has been the hottest year on record. The IPCC’s latest finding reaffirms that the human -generated climate change is real. In these circumstances, it is critical that we act and that we act soon and on a global basis. Afghanistan is a country that is emerging from great challenges in recent years, with a strong new national development plan, as was announced at the London Conference on the Future of Afghanistan, last week in London. Afghanistan has endured decades of conflict. We continue to face many security challenges as well as social and development challenges. Besides that, many social and environmental constraints such as lack of infrastructure, access to markets, social inequalities, and various productivity constraints are among the factors contributing to poverty in Afghanistan. Despite these challenges, Afghanistan is moving ahead with double digit economic growth since 2001. In addition to all these challenges Afghanistan is one of the ten countries in the w orld identified as most vulnerable to climate change. We are experiencing that the impacts of climate change in this land -locked, mountainous, and least developed country. The new government and the President himself have recently identified the impacts of climate change as a major additional hurdle in achieving our socio -economic objectives. Climate change and regional security is closely linked in Afghanistan. Afghanistan’s recovery from conflict and future growth is only p ossible increasingly severe ext reme weather events are better understood and adapted for. The future forecasts, if we fail to avoid the threat of a world with more than 2 degrees global average temperature increases, are of an increasingly unlivable world. We must keep a pathway open to avoiding any global average temperature increase in excess of 1.5 degrees. We do not accept that political failure in this process is an o ption. The pace of progress in our current negotiations is much too slow. There is the ongoing disappointing fail ure of the G -20 to meet its previous commitments, for example, to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. Afghanistan wishes to express deep concern that we are unlikely to avoid 2 degrees unless we rapidly increase our Ambition pre -2020 and conclude a strong and effective agreement in Paris in December next year. Such a strong and effective Paris Agreement is vital if we are to provide future generations with a livable planet and the opportunity for a good quality of life. This issue is extremely important to Afghanistan, Mr. President, Afghanistan has started to prepare its Second National Communication. We are moving ahead with a national strategy to move ahead with low carbon energy path. Some demonstrati on projects on harnessing the high potential of renewable energy, more efficient use of water through integrated water management practices, community b ased natural resources management and livelihood of communities, introduction of draught resistance crops, and similar small scale activities that could demonstrate the sustainable future path are being prioritized by the Government of Afghanistan. We are fully committed to contribute to the objectives of UNFCCC. The biggest challenge we are facing today is lack of resources to finance the infrastructures that we need to build and upgrade that helps to reduce the emissions of Green House Gases and also make us capable to adapt to the impacts of cli mate change. Afghanistan, as a Least Developed C ountry, was encouraged by the commitment made by developed countries in Copenhagen to scale up climate financing to $100 billion annually by 2020, but it is disappoi nting to know that the commitments to financial flows are nowhere toward s this. So far COP 20 has failed to deliver the further substantial funds that the Green Climate Fund needs. COP20 has also failed to map out a clear path to the pledged $100 billion per year climate change funding from 2020. A pledge of this kind requires clear milestones on the way, to ensure that resources are scaled up. Mr. President, Underlying muc h of our discuss ion has been the issue of how we ensure that the INDCs represent a fair share of the effort required to provide a safe climate for future generations. Afghanistan has proposed that the parties develop an appropriate Principle -based Referen ce Framework or a similar approach to allow an assess ment of fair sharing of the challenges and benefits of action and the fair share for each Party of providing the finance needed to address the critical climate change problem. We need a neutral mechanism to determine the reasonable fair share of the huge global effort of each party, both to minimi ze the risk of dangerous climate change and enable adaptation to the global warming which has already been caused primarily by the A nnex 1 countries. Mr. President, Afghanistan is often in news for loss of life due to explosions, suicide attacks, and so on, but not for loss of life of hundreds of poor Afghan because of severe draught and untimely floods. Our elders are now beginning to link these increasing events of draught and floods to changing climate, I leave this to scientific community to decide upon whether these extreme events are the result of global warming or not, but would like to draw attention of all - it is time to act fo r all of us without any delay in overcoming the challenges of increasing incidents of natural disasters, possibly the result of climate change. On behalf of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, I would like to reiterate our commitment for active participation and effective contribution in the regional and global initiatives in preparing our citizen against such disasters. I am pleased to share some of our recent initiatives reflecting our commitment to be an active member in fulfilling the objectives of UNFCCC. We have drafted the National Climate Change Policy of Afghanistan, Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMA), and National Adaptation Plan (NAP), and in near future all these will become the national policy and action plan. It gives me a great pleasure to share my personal feelings as an Afghan citizen that we the people of Afghanistan with great commitments towards democratic principles made possible for peaceful transformation of power for the first time in Afghan history. A s a Least Developed County, our focus is now in poverty reduction, and we look forward to global community to support us in our endeavors of preparing millions of poor Afghan to adapt to the impact of climate change. I wish we all agree here on a future p ath to follow by all of us rich or poor in overcoming the challenges of climate change, and this historic city Lima, a name of inspiration for our future generation. Mr. President, We need the Paris Agreement to include a docking mechanism so that the outcome of the Warsaw Work Program on an International Mechanism on Loss and Damage can seamlessly be incorporated in the Paris Agreement policies. The Paris Agreement needs to include an approach that will enable developing countries to protect vulnerable populations from climate related loss and damage. A promising proposal I have become aware of here at the COP is the implementation of a global levy of fossil fuel extraction to provi de the finance needed by the new International Loss and Damage Mechanism. I am hopeful that we make visible progress towards reaching agreement in 2015 to place all of us in a path to ensure we keep the global averag e temperature increase to well below 2 degrees C and preferably below 1.5 degrees C. Thank you Chairman for this o pportunity to present our views and we thank again Peru as host of the COP and the people of Lima for providing a warm welcome during our visit. Muchas Gracias (Moochass Grassias).