1 GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA STATEMENT BY AMBASSADOR SHEILA SEALY MONTEITH UNDER -SECRETARY MULTILATERAL AFFAIRS DIVISION MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND FOREIGN TRADE AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE TWENTY -FIRST CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNFCCC AND THE ELEVENTH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES SERVING AS THE MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL (COP 21 AND CMP11) Paris, France 30th November – 11th December 2015 2 Mr. President Excellencies, The Government and people of Jamaica extend deepest sympathies to and solidarity with the Government and people of the French Republic at this difficult time. We commend France for its commitment and leadership in tackling the issue of global climate cha nge. We anticipate that COP21 will be the turning point to institute concrete and universal action s to respond to climate change. This global phenomenon threatens the sustainable development of a ll nations, particularly the most vulnerable, including small island developing states, such as Jamaica. Climate change poses serious challenges to our ability to grow our economy, to our f ood security, the availability of water resources, physical infras tructure which are primarily located along our coasts as well as the livelihoods of our citizens, particularly the most vulnerable, that is, the poor, elderly, women and children. Indeed, f or small island developing states, climate change is an attack on our way of life. Its impact was brought home forcefully to the population in a real way this year, during the extended drought which resulted in severe water shortages in 3 several parts of the island, including the capital city, Kingston. This water shortage had significant adverse impacts on our agriculture and industrial sector s as well as the health sector. COP21 afford s us the opportunity t o take decisive steps to arrive at a global agreement that is universal in nature and which will allow for r eductions in greenhouse gas emissions that restrict global temperatures to way below 2oC above pre -industrial levels. For SIDS, however, we continue to strenuously advocate for a global temperature rise of no t more than 1.5oC. This call by SIDS is neithe r arbitrary nor emotional, as the science has proven that a greater increase in global temperatures will be catastrophic for many island states. We are firmly of the view that 1.5oC target is still attainable if all countries are committed to achieve this target, including the development, scale up, deployment and transfer of the necessary technologies. Jamaica reiterate s the call made by some CARICOM Heads at the Leaders Event that the anticipated universal climate agreement to be adopted at COP21 should fully recognize and reflect the specific needs and special circumstances of small island developing states with respect to their vulnerabilities to the impacts of climate change. 4 Mr. President, Jamaica is playing its part in reducing glob al greenhouse gas emissions and has submitted its I NDC s which covers actions in the energy sector. The country will seek to reduce the growth in GHG emissions by 7.8% by 2030. Indeed, our INDC i s an indicator of Jamaica’s willingness to take action against the deleterious effects of climate change in line with our capabilities, and for which w e will need the support of the international community. In Jamaica, we have adopted the slogan ‘With climate change …..we must change’, a call for a change in behaviour by the man in the street, businesses and the political directorate to facilitate a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a more resilient society. We welcome and applaud the pledges made by countries to the Green Climate Fund and stress the i mportance of a ccess to this mechanism b y developing countries, particularly the vulnerable SIDS. The work on loss and damage is important for SIDS and we welcome and support the work that has begun under the Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss and Dam age. 5 Mr. President, Jamaica views climate change and its impacts as a real and present danger that necessitates an integrated and universal response. For this reason, COP21 takes on added importance, and we believe our goals are achievable. Indeed, the place is here, in this the City of Lights and Love, and the time is now. Let us seize the moment to secure a better quality of life for future generations. Thank y ou.