1 HUNGARY Joint high -level segment of COP and CMP – National statements Dear Mr. President, dear Ministers, dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary as a Member State of the European Union supports the statement delivered by the European Union. Thank you for the opportunity to address the joint meeting of the COP21 and the CMP11. I would like to deliver the statement of Hungary : As the Head of State of Hungary expressed in his statement at the Leader's event last week, we have some serious questions to answer here in Paris towards the future generations. In this matter I would like to present the views and efforts of Hungary to you, dear Ministers and colleagues. Hunga ry is strongly committed to a successful Paris climate conference to find compromise between different interests of countries, and interests of climate, environment, energy and industry policies. First of all, our preference is to adopt a legally binding agreement preferably in the form of a new Protocol. We believe that the main objectives are the comprehensive involvement of Parties, the stimulation of their commitments and solving the question of differentiation. We believe that tackling climate change contributes to sustainable development. In our view the conference in Paris can provide a direction for this contribution in the coming decades. We believe that mitigation is the most important issue. We also acknowledge the role of adaptation, which shou ld be tackled at different levels (international, national, regional) since it is very much linked to local environment, circumstances and possibilities. Climate finance is a crucial point of the agreement. Climate finance will be a vital element of the Paris agreement. Let me inform you that Hungary announced 1 billion HUF (around 4 million USD) for the Green Climate Fund in the beginning of July. The agreement 2 between t he developed and developing countries and the fair burden sharing is very important. We welcome the large number of submitted Intended Nationally Determined Contributions. We believe it is an important signal towards the world that the biggest emitters al so join the global fight against climate change. The EU’s INDC, including Hungary’s INDC, is one of the most ambitious in the world with its 40% reduction target by 2030 compared to the level of 1990. Regarding Hungary’s other international and national e fforts, our country was among the first Member States who concluded the national ratification process regarding the Doha amendment of the Kyoto Protocol. To support the activities and measures targeting the reduction of the domestic emission of greenhouse gases, Hungary operates its Green Investment Scheme (GIS). Main focus of the GIS at the time is increasing the energy efficiency of residential buildings. Hungary set the goal of reaching the share of renewable energy to 14.65% within the total gross energy consumption until 2020. As part of the energy and climate targets of the Europe 2020 strategy Hungary agreed in 2013 to achieve a 10 per cent overall energy saving. The overall energy saving target changed upwards in 2014 and it will be updated during the yearly revision of 2015 National Reform Program. Furthermore the level of the GHG emission reductions reached already minus 36% in 2013 compared to th e level of 1990. This reduction is achieved due to significant improvement in the industry and energy sector, as well as investments in energy efficiency after the change of regime. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, In addition to the Hungarian pledge to t he Green Climate Fund, I would like to announce, that Hungary will raise 1 billion HUF (approximately 4 million USD) from 2016 on to further international climate finance projects on a multi - and bilateral basis. We really hope, that we conclude a desirable new global climate agreement at the end of this week together with you, which not only ours, but many future generations demand from us. Thank you for your time and thank you for listening!