STATEMENT BY PROF. JUDI W. WAKHUNGU, CABINET SECRETARY - MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, WATER AND NATURAL RESOURCES ( REPUBLIC OF KENYA) DURING THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF COP 20 / CMP 10 IN LIMA, PERU H.E. Manuel Pulgar -Vidal, President of COP 20/CMP 10, Honourable M inisters, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, May I sincerely congratulate the Government of Peru for assuming the Presidency of COP 20 / CMP 10. I wish to assure you of Kenya’s support to your Presidency, particularly with regard to delivering a meaningful outcome here in Lima. The Government of Kenya aligns itself to the statements delivered by the Chairs of the Group of 77 and China and the African Group. Climate change poses a serious global challenge as evidenced b y science and therefore requires an urgent and immediate action by all. The fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC presents a higher degree of confidence on the occurrence of climate change than ever before, and the impacts are a reality today. The projected future impacts 2 present catastrophic scenarios for Kenya, Africa and other vulnerable developing countries. COP 20/CMP 10 present an opportunity for us to make bold and comprehensive decision s for a safe r Planet, its people and their livelihoods. A strong outcome here in Lima is critical for laying a firm foundation for 2015 Agreement. As part of the roadmap agreed in Durban, Doha and Warsaw, Lima must produce the elements of a draft negotiation text for the post -2015 Agreement in accordance with the objective, principles and provisions of the Convention. The Agreement must address all the elements of mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology, capacity - building, transparency of action, and support in a comprehensive and balanced manner without om itting the aspects of loss and damage. COP 20 also pres ents an opportunity to demystify the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs ), and provide guidance on its scope and upfront guiding information requirements. The INDCs must reflect the efforts Parties are willing to contribute towards the enhanced implementation of their obligations under the convention as enshrined in its Article 4. Enhancing the pre -2020 ambition is critical to keep us on track to a below two degree temperature rise ; and to help 3 build necessary trust and confidence for a meaningful 2015 Agreement. Developed countries should take the lead in increasing their mitigation ambition, and providing enhanced support for developing countries to incre ase their ambition. Accelerated implementation of the existing commitments and actions under the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol will be a critical part of this package. It is in this respect that I call for a speedy ratification of the Doha Amendment t o Kyoto Protocol to allow entry into force of the Second Commitment period of the Protocol. Kenyahas lived to this call by ratifying the Doha Amendment in June 2014. I also welcome, and indeed recognise pledges by some developed countr y-Part ies to the Green Climate Fund and urge for more accelerated action to ensure its full capitalization. We look forward to the full operationalization of the F und so as to support developing countries towards alow carbon - climate resilient development path way. Ladies and Gentlemen, Kenya, as a vulnerable developing country, continues to prioritize climate response action. We have devised sector - wide voluntary domestic measures and actions to respond to climate change as outlined in the Kenya’s National Climate Change Response Strategy and Action Plan. We are 4 in the process of concluding a climate change Policy and law to guide the mainstreaming of climate change in sectoral policies. Lastly distinguishe d Ladies and Gentlemen, A m eaningful outcome from this conference is critical in enhancingthe multilateral rules based regime under the UNFCCC. Kenya stands ready to engage proactively and positively towards a successful outcome here in Lima. Thank you, Mr. President.