1 Statement at the opening of the high -level segment of COP20 by Italian Minister Gian Luca Galletti, President of the Council of the European Union Lima, 9 December 2014 Mr Chair, distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, dear Friends, Let me start by thanking our Peruvian hosts for their hospitality and exceptional effort in providing us a setting in which history can be made. The road to Paris starts here in Lima. In only 12 months we will have the chance to adopt an historic treaty that will accelerate the world transitioning to a low -carbon climate resilient future. Our work here needs to pave the way for Paris. To ensure progress, COP 20 needs to agree on some key deliverables :  Firstly, we need a Party owned, more mature and balanced version of the dra ft text of the agreement that we are to adopt in Paris; and  Secondly, we need clarity on the information required to ensure that Parties propos ed contributions are transparent and understandable; we should also agree on a process to consider and analyse those proposed commitments before Paris ;  Last but certainly not least, we need to reach an a greement on how we can continue to further work together to enhance mitigation ambition before 2020. Good progress has been made but more is needed. Statement at the opening of the high -level segment of COP20 by Arias Cañete, European Commissioner for Climate Action Lima, 9 December 2014  We must move with a greater sense of urgency if we want to secure a global climate change agreement in Paris next year.  And build on the growing evidence of global resolve - the announcements of proposed targets by three of the world's largest eco nomies, the Ban Ki -Moon S ummit, the capitalisation of the Green Climate Fund, the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, to name a few. 2  The European Union's vision for the 2015 Agreement is an ambitious, balanced, internationally legally -binding treaty that is dynamic, durable and applicable to all countries.  While we recognise the need to respect the principles of the Convention concerning differentiation, we need to apply these principles according to today's economic and geopolitical realities.  The 2015 Agreement must be fit for the future, and look forward, not back. The Paris deal must be compre hensive and balanced. This means also improved provisions for climate adaptation and different forms of support.  Science tells us our below two degree target is still within reach. We need the political courage to act without delay and move beyond rhetoric.  The EU is ready and urges others to join..