UN Climate Change Conference 2014 Lima/Peru Statement by H.E. Mr Andrä RUPPRECHTER Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Federal Republic of Austria Check against delivery! Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me start by thanking Peru and the Peruvian COP Presidency for the excellent work here in Lima. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time – in environmental, but also in economic terms. And climate change is a fact! Its impacts, damages and resulting costs are already being felt around the globe. In the recent weeks several publications, on top the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC, h ave clearly underlined this. Global warming cannot be d enied, and it must not be denied! In my own country, Austria, a country with fragile Alpine eco-systems, an activity similar to the IPCC assessments was launched three years ago. The so-ca lled Austrian Panel on Climate Change, the APCC, published its First Assessment Report on the curren t state of the climate in Austria in September 2014. Warming to date in Austria has been more than doubl e the global average. Our glaciers are melting rapi dly, and the number of extreme weather events like heavy rainfalls or severe droughts has significantly increased in recent years. Today in the morning we had an Austrian Side Event, where these results wer e presented. Let me highlight some of the steps Austria has alre ady taken to address the challenge of climate chang e. Over 30 percent of our total domestic final energy demand is currently met by renewables. We are confident to be well beyond 34 percent by 2020. Aro und 70 percent of domestic electricity production i s from renewables. As you know, nuclear energy is no t part of our energy mix, because it is a high risk – too high risk – energy technology and not sustainable. And I aim for a fossil-free energy system in Austri a by the year 2050. Mr. President, All scientific findings underline that we must do m ore against climate change – in Austria, in Europe, as well as around the globe. It is clear that we need a new, legally-binding climate agreement that is fit to meet the climate challenges of the twenty-first century. We need the broadest possible participation. In 2015 t he UNFCCC process will reach another peak in Paris. He re in Lima we are at a decisive junction on our way to Paris: Can we agree upon the text elements to be ne gotiated during the next year? Are we ready to defi ne the criteria for our intended contributions? We nee d commitments from all countries - common but differentiated commitments, reflecting individual c apabilities as they evolve over time. We need a res ponse to the climate challenge which is ambitious and equ itable at the same time. And we need a success here in Lima. The Paris Conference must set a new era in ta ckling climate change. Developed countries need to take the lead in this e ndeavour. And they should continue to support developing countries in the areas of finance, techn ology and capacity-building. Austria has spent more than 120 Mio US $ in the Fast Start Finance Cycle 2010 t o 2012. We significantly scaled up our contribution in 2013 and 2014. In this context our focus is on bila teral mitigation and adaptation projects as well as capacity building and technology transfer. We will continue with such projects. Austria takes its responsibility seriously in contributing to the ini tial capitalization of the Green Climate Fund! I am glad to announce today that Austria is in a position – as a preliminary first step - to feed a total of 25 Mio US $ into the Fund in the years 2015 to 2018. I am in negotia tions to double this amount up to 50 Mio US $ in a second step early next year. Mr. President, At the beginning of my intervention I mentioned tha t climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, it should not turn into the greatest challeng e. Let us demonstrate our collective leadership - l et us act together! Thank you.