Abridged version of the Malawi National Statement Presented at the High -level Segment of the 21st Conference of the Parties GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI STATEMENT BY HONOURABLE BRIGHT MSAKA, SC MINISTER FOR NATURAL RESOURCES, ENERGY AND MINING (LEADER OF DELEGATION) AT THE 21ST SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE PARIS, FRANCE, 7TH DECEMBER 2015  COP. 21/CMP.11 President, Your Excellency Minister Laurent Fabius,  The Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Ms. Christiana Figueres,  Your Excellencies, Ministers and Heads of Delegations,  Distinguished Delegates,  Ladies and Gentlemen. On behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, I wish to congratulate Your Excelle ncy Laurent Fabius, on your election as President of the 21st Conference of Parties. I wish you unlimited success and outstanding achievements. Mr. President, Malawi would like to concur and associate itself with the statements made by the Chairs of the Group of 77 and China, Least Developed Countries, as well as the African Group. Our l eaders of these groups have made it clear, as is Malawi, that the world is justifiably waiting for our decisions with a degree of impatience, in particular on the issues surrounding financing for adaptation, mitigation, capacity building, technology transfer, use of market mechanisms, agriculture, loss and damage, implementation of the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions covering both mitigation and adaptation ef forts, and the implementation of a binding 2015 Paris Agreement, and its accompanying decisions. Both science and experience have made it clear that climate change is real and requires urgent action. We are already seeing the horrific impacts of climate change, adversely affecting the poorest and most vulnerable. People are dying. People are displaced. Livelihoods are threatened. Countries are losing their long and hard -earned infrastructure. Economies are pushed back decades. My own country, Malawi, for instance, is a country bearing the brunt of the adverse impact of climate change. In January this year, we experienced devastating floods unprecedented in living memory. These floods affected 1.1 million people, with over 350 dead. The floods also caused widespread damage to crops, livestock, homes, as well as roads and bridges. The State President of the Republic of Malawi, His Excellency Professor Arthur Peter Mutharika, declared a state of disaster in our country. The adverse impacts of climate related disasters have grossly retarded economic growth as well as food security an d poverty eradication initiatives in our country. Thus, as a consequence of climate change, Malawi is this year registering the worst economic statistics in over a decade. The impressive economic gains that Malawi registered were washed away along with the floods. Because of Malawi’s vulnerability to climate change, there is an urgent need to implement interventions that would enhance the resilience of productive sectors affected by these climate related disasters. Malawi needs support in form of finance for adaptation, transfer of appropriate technology, and capacity building. Mr President, the COP -21, here in Paris, therefore requires us to adopt a binding global agreement and accompanying decisions that will rescue Malawi’s vulnerable populations for them to be able to sustain their livelihoods, now and in future, through the post - 2020 period. Mr. President, Malawi sees a great opportunity for political and moral leadership, and an increasingly urgent need for action in the face of these escalating t hreats to humankind. Developed country parties must take the lead and show their commitment to enhancing implementation of the Convention that we all signed two decades ago. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Malawi firmly believes that because we all de pend on this one planet, no one country has the right to conduct itself in a manner that endangers our common home. Further, no one country has the moral justification to opt out of the global efforts to protect our earth. Mr President, Your Excellencie s, Honourable Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you all for listening to Malawi’s statement. Full text of t he Malawi National Statement Presented at the High -level Segment of the 21st Conference of the Parties GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI STATEMENT BY HONOURABLE BRIGHT MSAKA, SC MINISTER FOR NATURAL RESOURCES, ENERGY AND MINING (LEADER OF DELEGATION) AT THE 21ST SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE PARIS, FRANCE, 7TH DECEMBER 2015  COP. 21/CMP.11 President, Your Excellency Minister Laurent Fabius,  The Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Ms. Christiana Figueres,  Your Excellencies, Ministers and Heads of Delegations,  Distinguished Delegates,  Ladies and Gentlemen. On behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, I wish to congratulate Your Excellency Laurent Fabius, on your election as President of the 21st Conference of Parties. I wish you unlimited success and outstanding achievements. Mr. Pres ident, Malawi would like to concur and associate it self with the statements made by the Chairs of the Group of 77 and China, Least Developed Countries, as well as the African Group. Our l eaders of these groups have made it clear, as is Malawi, that the wo rld is justifiably waiting for our decisions with a degree of impatience, in particular on the issues surrounding financing for adaptation, mitigation, capacity building, technology transfer, use of market mechanisms, agriculture, loss and damage, impleme ntation of the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions covering both mitigation and adaptation efforts, and the implementation of a binding 2015 Paris Agreement, and its accompanying decisions. Both science and experience have made it clear that cli mate change is real and requires urgent action. We are already seeing the horrific impacts of climate change, adversely affecting the poorest and most vulnerable. People are dying. People are displaced. Livelihoods are threatened. Countries are losing thei r long and hard -earned infrastructure. Economies are pushed back decades. My own country, Malawi, for instance, is a country bearing the brunt of the adverse impact of climate change. In January this year, we experienced devastating floods unprecedented in living memory. These floods affected 1.1 million people, with over 350 dead. The floods also caused widespread damage to crops, livestock, homes, as well as roads and bridges. The State President of the Republic of Malawi, His Excellency Professor Arthu r Peter Mutharika, declared a state of disaster in our country. The adverse impacts of climate related disasters have grossly retarded economic growth as well as food security and poverty eradication initiatives in our country. Thus, as a consequence of c limate change, Malawi is this year registering the worst economic statistics in over a decade. The impressive economic gains that Malawi registered were washed away along with the floods. Because of Malawi’s vulnerability to climate change, there is an urgent need to implement interventions that would enhance the resilience of productive sectors affected by these climate related disasters. Malawi needs support in form of finance for adaptat ion, transfer of appropriate technology, and capacity building. Mr President, the COP -21, here in Paris, therefore requires us to adopt a binding global agreement and accompanying decisions that will rescue Malawi’s vulnerable populations for them t o be able to sustain their livelihoods, now and in future, through the post -2020 period. Mr. President, Malawi sees a great opportunity for political and moral leadership, and an increasingly urgent need for action in the face of these escalating threats to humankind. Developed country parties must take the lead and show their commitment to enhancing implementation of the Convention that we all signed two decades ago. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Malawi firmly believes that because we all depend o n this one planet, no one country has the right to conduct itself in a manner that endangers our common home. Further, no one country has the moral justification to opt out of the global efforts to protect our earth. Mr President, Your Excellencies, Honourable Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you all for listening to Malawi’s statement.