1 Check against delivery Statement by Mr. Jorge Moreira da Silva,Minister of Environment, Spatial Planning and Energy of Portugal Mr. President, Ministers, Colleagues, My first words are to congratulate the Peruvian authorities for the organisation of the Lima Climate Change Conference – COP20 and CMP10. Mr. President, There's no room for hesitation. This is the time for leadership and responsibility. We have no excuses. According to all relevant and consistent scie ntific and economic assessment, addr essing climate change is urgent but it is also manageable and it can be cost -effective. We cannot afford to pay the political price of a Copenhagen part II in Paris, next year. Citizens won't accept it. Let’s use the time ahead of us to join forces and t o compromise and not to get trapped i n the same old feelings of misunderstanding and mistrust that have prevent ed us to get a global agreement in the last 8 years. How can we foster a comprehensive, fair and cost -effective climate deal? 2 We shall adopt a single global, rules -based, legally binding agreement, preferably in the form of a new Protocol, applicable to all, according to common but different iated responsibilities, which aims to ensure the global temperature increase stays below 2° C. This agreeme nt should foster climate resilient and sustainable development as well as facilitate adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change. Furthermore, it should also address the financial gap and foster a global carbon market, developing and linking nation al, regional and sectorial cap - and-trade schemes. We believe that such agreement needs to address the scope of issues that was agreed in Durban and w e are firmly convinced that this process can deliver, if we all work together. Mr. Chair, in order to a chive an agreement in Paris, we need to deliver our objectives in the ADP here in Lima. We must a gree on the process for the INDCs – intended nationally determined contributions –including the necessary upfront information as well as the consultation and a nalysis phase. We need clear mitigation commitments based on transparent, quantifiable and comparable information. Thi s is the single guarantee that in Paris we will be able to provide a long -term goal and agregate pathway consistent with 2C. Mr. Presiden t, Allow me to underline that this ambition at the international level is fully in line with our national vision and with the steps we are undertaking at home. 3 Portugal has been one of the countries advocating for more ambitious action on climate mitigat ion and renewable energy and, simultaneously, one of the countries in Europe that will suffer significantly from the impacts of climate change, mostly on our the coastline and in what regards our water resources. Early this week, a reputed NGO has ranked Portugal, again, 4th in its Climate Change Performance Index. We welcome this recognition of our progress so far as we continue to develop our climate policies towards 2020 and 2030. Portugal overachieved the 2012 climate targets, we have already reached 27% of renewable energy on final consumption and almost 60% of renewable energy on electricity supply. And we are ready to go further. This is a trend that we intend to continue and reinforce. Portugal is mainstreaming green growth as a key driver toward s sustainable development, to promote a competitive and resilient low carbon economy, high efficiency in resource use, competitiveness and jobs. We have recently launched, an ambitious long term commitment - the Commitment for Green Growth – establishing goals and initiatives on green jobs, resource productivity, energy efficiency, electric mobility, spatial planning, forest management, water resource efficiency, air and water quality and biodiversity. It also sets the target of reducing GHG emissions by 30 to 40% until 2030, compared to 2005 and to i ncrease renewable energy share to 40% by 2030. 4 Furthermore, last week we adopted the Green Taxation Reform, including a carbon tax on non -ETS sectors. Under the principle of fiscal ne utrali ty, the net income of the green taxation reform will be allocated to the reduction of personal income taxes. It also includes inc entives to el ectric vehicles, biodiversity an d sustainable mobility. It is a relevant step towards a paradigm shift in Portugal, fostering efficie ncy and eco -innovation. We are following the principle of "taxing more what you burn and less what you earn". We are also committed to continue our work supporting other more vulnerable partners as we continue with our bilateral support programmes focusi ng on african portuguese speaking countries and Timor Leste, mostly part of the least developed countries (LDC) group and some part of the small island development states (SIDS). Under the reform of the Portuguese Carbon Fund, in 2015, Portugal will make a contribution for the Green Climate Fund. A good outcome in Lima is crucial in order to make Paris the success that we all are working towards. Portugal is committed to this process and we would like to pledge our full support to the Peruvian Presiden cy. Thank you 5