High Level Segment of the 21° session of the Conference of Parties (COP) of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Statement by Mr. Anwar Hossain Hon’ble Minister, Ministry of Environment & Forests Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh Paris, France 7-8 November 2015 Excellencies Ladies and Gentlemen, I have come here with a heavy heart. I was shocked to hear about the deadly terrorist attack in Paris two weeks back. Let me once again express my deepest condolences to the families who lost their near and dear ones and suffered in the deadly attack. Let me assure you that we are with you in the fight against terrorism. Mr. Chair, I thank France for convening the global community on climate change despite such threats posed to humankind. Our profound gratitude to President Hollande for his commendable leadership. Excellencies, Climate change is a harsh global scale reality posing one of the greatest threats to humanity and our planet. Particularly vulnerable countries, especially LDCs and SIDs are taking ‘disproportionate burden and sufferings while contributing least to this global calamity. The climatic risks will continue to rise perilously if we fail to take enhanced collective action right now. Bangladesh contributes least to global greenhouse gas emission. Yet, we pay heavily on account of the impacts of climate change. Every year, Bangladesh risks losing 2 to 3 percent of the country’s developmental gains and this tisk will surely increase in future if climate change continues to worsen. However, Bangladesh is doing its bit to address complex vulnerabilities we face. To address climate change at the National level, we created a Climate Change Trust Fund in 2009 and so far an allocation of 400 million USD has been made from our own budgetary resources. Despite limited resources, Bangladesh is pursuing a low carbon development pathway, with emphasis on renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy conservation. Over the years, we have installed close to four million solar home systems across the country and around 16 million people have access to renewable energy. Mr. Chair, in response to global call, we have also submitted our INDCs. In our INDCs we have put both unconditional and conditional mitigation contributions along with an adaptation component. Now we have to make sure that the Paris Agreement will facilitate the meaningful implementation of the INDCs. To this end, provision of finance and technology are obviously the most critical elements to be made clearer in the Agreement. Excellencies, since climate change is a global problem, we have to find global solution ey ot me hiohlicht a few of our expectations that need to be fairly reflected in Firstly, it is important to set a collaborative platform that will facilitate effective engagement of all countries and undertaking of meaningful climate actions. Secondly, with reference to nationally determined mitigation commitments or contributions we observe with grave concern that submitted INDCs will leave the global temperature to rise between 2.7 to 3.5° Celsius, which will bring dangerous negative consequences to the global community, particularly vulnerable countries like my own. Even 2°Celsius global goal is not considered safe for Bangladesh and other extremely vulnerable countries. Thirdly, Mr. President, I expect that the linkage between mitigation and adaptation-need will be clearly recognized in the agreement. It is necessary to recognize adaptation as a global challenge and a global responsibility. It is critical to ensure effective and adequate implementation of nationally appropriate adaptation actions, building on and strengthening existing institutions and mechanisms. For that appropriate finance and technology transfer is essential. For Bangladesh, It is also critical to have Loss and Damage as an integral part of Paris Agreement with emphasis on the establishment of a climate change displacement coordination facility in providing organized migration and planned relocation. Fourthly, the agreement should include clear provisions to provide adequate means of implementation for adaptation and mitigation actions in a balanced manner, taking into consideration specific needs and circumstances of LDCs and other particularly vulnerable countries, The Green Climate Fund needs further capitalization along with early replenishment of LDC Fund. Clarity must be provided on mobilization of resources for pre 2020 and post 2020 climate actions considering the pathway to $100 billion per year as a floor from 2020. Mr. President, we need to work for a new dawn, promoting transformational change towards low carbon and climate resilient development in a collaborative fashion, which will not only guarantee new jobs, but also ensure security of food, energy, water and health and ensure economic and social sustainability and well being of all citizens of the world. Excellencies, as we speak in Paris, our people ask us to deliver on the expectation engendered by COP 21. This COP must redeem the faith repose on us. Let us engage in Paris in true spirit of dedication, trust and cooperation. And, let our posterity remember Paris as a historic turning point that secured the sustainability of future generations. Page | 3 Our Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina recipient of UN Champion of the Earth is committed to development in Bangladesh without destroying our Environment. There has to be an echo balance — she says. I thank you all. Page | 4