1 REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE Statement by H.E Mrs. Alcinda António de Abreu Minister for Coordination of Environmental Affairs At the Lima Climate Conference Lima, December 2014 2 Mr Chair Excellences Ladies and Gentleman´s Mozambique wants to express its full alignment with the statement made by the representatives of African group, G77 and China and LDCS Countries. Excellencies The world is being witnessing the impacts of climate change almost every day with people dying or displaced and communities losing their livelihood and properties resulting in more people becoming vulnerable and poorest. The science has been telling us that if we continue to increase emissions, in the near future no single country will stand safe from the negative impact of climate change. Today we have the honor and privilege to revert this trend by adopting and implementing decisions that will stabilize and revert the current trend. None of us would like to be appointed by the present and the future generations a s part of those that did nothing to keep the planet safe, and as promoters of climate genocide. 3 Honorable Ministers and Heads of Delegations, We agreed to keep the increase temperature below 2 degree Celsius and since Durban we are working towards adopting an international climate change regime nest year and exploring mitigation option that will increase the mitigation ambitions in pre-2020 while the most vulnerable countries like Mozambique are building o ur climate resilience. In this regards last year, in Warsaw we are agreed on milestones to be achieved here in Lima to ensure that pos -2020 climate agreement is adopted in Paris. In Respon se to climate change challenges, the Government of Mozambique approved in November 2012, The National Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation Strategy, aimed at increasing resilience and reducing climate risk, both at the community and national level, while promoting low -carbon development and green economy through their integration in sector ial and local planning processes. The Strategy has clearly identified adaptation and climate risk reduction as national priority. We are now putting in place institutional framewor ks and tools, just to highlight, the National Monitoring and Evaluation System and the Nat ional System for GHG at the meantime integrati ng climate change into local planning and budg eting system through the formulation of local adaptation plan of action. Also 4 the Governme nt is coordinating the formulation of NAMA to promote sustainable developm ent that includes namely : - To improve access to renewable ener gy, increase energy efficiency, and p romote low -carbon urbanization -To promot e the access of Climate friendly technology for Industries -To reduce low -carbon agricultural practices, deforest ation and wildfires, and improve management of biodiversity and coastal ecosystems - To promote sustainable waste management practices. Remain a challenge to achieve the vision stated in our Strategy “A prosperous and Climate Change - resilient Mozambique, with a green economy in all social and economic sectors “by 2025 as it requires technological and financial support including stren gthening institutional and technical capacities. Excellences Ladies and Gentleman´s 5 Billions of people are watc hing us and waiting to see our political commitment to this process and to the shaping of an upcoming climate change regime that will secure our future and the future of generation to come. We must give that political guidance to our negotiators so in Pari s we can adopt a sound new international climate regime. I Thank You!