Mr/Mme President, Ministers, Delegates, Friends, Check against delivery. Climate change is t he challenge of our generation; its effects are already seen in different parts of the world. We, politicians of today, have a responsibility towards our children and future generations. When taking on this challenge we must make use of our best collective knowledge. At this very moment the Nobel Prize Award Ceremony is taking place in my hometow n Stockholm. As part of the ceremony, t he Swedish King gives rewards to distinguish ed laureates; scientists and writers. The message from the scientific climate change community is clear: the world needs to move away from fossile dependency to sustaina ble levels of greenhouse gas emissions. The meeting here in Lima is our chance to show political leadership and make possible a global agreement that offers the world good livelihood for all people. There is strong evidence today that there are potential s, in all types of economies, to cut emissions whilst improving economic perfo rmance and creating benefits for health, poverty reduction and energy security. I have come to Lima ready to lay the foundation for an ambitious, fair and global, legally binding climate change agreement in Paris next year. We now have the mom entum to succeed in these negotiations. Many governments are actively preparing their nationally determined mitigation contributions. In the EU, we will prepare a contribution based on the recent decision of a binding EU target of at least 40 per cent domestic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. Further, we welcome the initial replenishment process of the Green Climate Fund. Sweden has made a ple dge of 580 million USD to the F und. We encourage others to follow our example and contribute generously. There is an urgent need for adaptation, especially in poor and vulnerable countries. We welcome the dec ision by the Green Climate Fund to allocate 50 percent of its funding to adaptation over time. Mr President, a new climate regime must facilitate a transition to a climate resilient sustainabl e development - for all countries. Sweden is ready to take the lead along with other developed countries. Sweden h as set a national target of -40 per cent for 2020 and we are currently speeding up efforts to realize further mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions beyond that date. Our aim is to develop a new climate policy framework towards 2050 that makes sure ambitious climate goals are met. Our experience is that clear climate objectives foster engagement from businesses, cities and nation s. It is of great importance that a new agreement must be dynamic and ensure increased ambition over time that responds to new scientific findings and technological developments. Our common goal, to keep the average global temperature increase below two or one point five degrees, must guide our decisions here in Lima and the new agreement. One of the Nobel laureates is receiving the priz e for inventing a new energy -efficient and environmentally friendly light - the LED - lamp. It is a creation that will transform lighting and reduce energy. Here in Lima we need to make decisions that enable and encourage the transform ation of climate related technologies. Agreeing a new global climate agreement in Paris is an opportunity the world cannot afford to miss.