1 1STATEMENT BY H.E. DR. MOHAMMED GHARIB BILAL, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA AND REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COORDINATOR OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE AFRICAN HEADS OF STATE AND GOVERNMENTS ON CLIMATE CHANGE (CAHOSCC) AT THE UNITED NATIONS CLIMATE CONFERENCE (COP20/CMP10) LIMA, PERU 9TH DECEMBER, 2014 Your Excellency, Mr. Manuel Pulgar-Vidah, Minister of State for Environment of Peru and COP 20/CMP10 President; Ms. Christiana Figueres, Executive Secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; Excellencies Heads of Delegations; Distinguished Participants; 2 2 Ladies and Gentlemen. The United Republic of Tanzania as Coordinator of the Committee of the African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change (CAHOSCC) is honored, on behalf of Africa, to address the 20th Session of the Conference of Parties (COP) and the 10 th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP). At the outset, I wish to reaffirm Africa’s deepest appreciation of Peru’s leadership at this.../Conference 3 3 Conference and pledge our fullest support to you, Mr. President, in your endeavor to ensure a successful Conference of the Parties with the usual support of Madam Christiana Figueres, Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC and her team. Let me also recognize the exemplary leadership of the outgoing COP President, H.E. Mr. Marcin Korolec of Poland that led to groundbreaking d e c i s i o n s t h a t w e r e m a d e a t C O P 1 9 / C M P 9 i n Warsaw last year..../I also 4 4 I also commend H.E. Mr. Ban Ki Moon, UN Secretary General, for the timely convening of the UN Climate Summit in New York, September this year. The climate actions that were pronounced by global leaders from governments, corporates, businesses, companies, civil societies and philanthropies presented our collective will to address the enormous challenges of climate change we all face today. Mr. President; For Africa, Climate change is indeed a challenge. Despite registering strong economic growth in.../recent 5 5 recent years, most African economies rely on climate-sensitive sectors highly exposed to climate variability, drought, flooding, which are disrupting agricultural production endangering livelihoods and health, pushing marginalized groups further down into the vicious cycle of poverty. Seventy per cent of agricultural land in Africa is already degraded affecting sixty seven per cent of the entire African population. A quarter of the African population (200 million people) suffers from acute water shortage. On the other hand, we know very well that if Africa focuses on smart choices, it can win investments.../in 6 6 in the next few decades in climate resilient development pathways. Thus the most important matter before us and within the new agreement i s h o w t o m a k e s u r e A f r i c a a d a p t s a n d participates effectively in the global efforts to mitigate climate change without compromising her development agenda. Mr. President; We must all work together towards an agreement that will help us to focus on strategic choices within the framework of the Convention that can ensure climate resilient and low.../emission 7 7 emission development pathways for a sustainable future. Under CAHOSCC leadership, Africa is already making such choices to contribute towards this goal through various efforts and initiatives. In June this year, the African Union adopted a High Level Framework Work Programme on Climate Change Action in Africa. The Work programme covers all the key areas that we believe are of Africa’s immediate and long-term interest. They include: Climate Financing and Technology needs; An Africa-wide Programme on Adaptation; Actions on Mitigation; Cross-cutting actions and Participation;.../International 8 8 International Cooperation as well as Institutional mechanism for follow up. We believe if these actions are adequately implemented, Africa will be able to contribute to the global efforts to address climate change Mr. President; Africa is committed to working with all parties to achieve a legally binding agreement in 2015. The principles of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities and Equity should be upheld. Any new agreement need to be guided by the Climate Change.../Convention, 9 9 Convention, allowing the participation and considerations of all areas of interest within this instrument we all signed on. In relation to the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs), as adopted during COP19, Africa wishes to underscore the inclusion of all elements of adaptation, mitigation, climate finance, technology and capacity building. Furthermore, the Agreement should take into account the need for addressing loss and damage as a global concern..../To 10 10 To be more specific, Africa underlines the following: 1.Reduction of Emissions  Each country should strive to take, in accordance with its national circumstances, bold and ambitious reduction efforts to ensure that temperature levels are limited to well below 2 oC;  For adaptation and mitigation to succeed, African countries must be supported financially and technologically; and  Developed country Parties need to take economy-wide emission reduction commitments..../2. Climate Finance 11 11 2. Climate Finance  We commend those countries that have contributed around USD 9.7 billion to the Green Climate Fund (GCF) so far and urge o t h e r s t o d o t h e s a m e t o e n a b l e A f r i c a n countries in undertaking adaptation and mitigation actions as agreed. Nevertheless, Africa is concerned that the LDC Fund and the Adaptation Fund are not getting the contributions as committed. Africa therefore calls on developed countries to honour their many commitments and pledges on climate financing made at various fora; .../While 12 12  While the Framework for REDD plus was adopted in Warsaw, Africa is seriously concerned with lack of clarity on the REDD financing, particularly to the host governments and local communities. 3. Agriculture and Food Security  Africa’s socio-economic development is mainly hinged on agricultural sector, which is increasingly being impacted by climate change.  Africa thus, urges Developed Countries to support the development and adoption of.../appropriate 13 13 appropriate climate resilient technologies in agricultural production, processing and value chain development – to address the food security and poverty reduction imperatives in the continent. 4. Adaptation  Adaptation remains Africa’s priority as we move along. For Africa, adaptation should not be treated as a national problem:  The short, medium and long term costs of adaptation can never be met by African countries whose economies are dependent on climate sensitive sectors; .../Therefore 14 14  Therefore Africa calls for adaptation to be a global goal in the 2015 agreement and urges developed country parties to support adaptation as a global priority. Mr. President; In conclusion, Africa calls on developed countries to come forward with enhanced mitigation commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and under the Climate Change Convention. As part of our contributions to the global efforts to address climate change, Africa will focus on smart choices that will allow investments in climate resilient.../and 15 15 and low emission development pathways that can contribute to vibrant societies, robust economies, and healthy environment on the continent. Africa remains committed to providing the political leadership towards addressing climate change as we move towards Paris and beyond. We look forward to constructively engage all parties to reaching an agreement here in Lima that will pave the way for the much awaited agreement in Paris, next year. I thank you all for your kind attention.