STATEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA to the Twent y-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC Fourteen session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol Third part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement Katowice, Poland, 2 to 14 December 2018 Presented by Igor Čižmek, B.Sc. Arch. ASSISTANT MINISTER MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY Mr President, Excellences, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is my great pleasure and honour to convey the warmest thanks to the Government and the people of the Republic of Poland for organizing these prominent Conf erences in this beautiful country and the city of Katowice. The Paris Agreement represents a historic turning point in the reinforcement of the global common spirit and the transformation into a low carbon society resilient to climate change. Despite new geopolitical challenges, countries as well as non - state stake holders remain strongly committed to the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement proving that this transition is irreversible. Croatia, a country highly vulnerable to climate change, takes very seriously the scientific facts presented in the „IPCC Special report on 1.5 °C“, which show the risks and impacts on ecosystems, the economy and the entire life of a society that will take place if the global temperature rises more than 1.5 °C and 2 °C. The Paris Agreement is a valuable vision of the future, but it is only a framework, and its full application requires the adoption of detailed operational rules, the so - called „Rule Book“. What we find particularly important is that the rules should apply to all Parties, as was agreed in Paris, and taking into consideration the necessary flexibility for developing countries. Flexibility for developing parties should be set up in such a way that it follows their economic progress and that it is determined when the country can meet its commitments to the fullest extent, both with regard to emission reduction and with regard to reporting on emissions and the efforts for their reduction. Croatia, within the framework of the EU common target, namely, the emission reduction by at least 40% by 2030, unde rtakes efforts that represent a great challenge for its economy and available human resources. These targets are incorporated into the Energy Strategy, the Low -carbon Development Strategy and the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, in order to focus future development on a low carbon society. Another great challenge for Croatia is also the collection of the required data and the preparation of annual greenhouse gas ses emission reports as well as participation in the review. However, at the same time this is an opportunity to improve statistical data in the country as well as the cooperation between institutions. Croatia is vulnerable to climate change and deeply invested in the success of the Paris Agreement, since the greater emiss ion reductions are, the less al l countries will have to inves t in risk avoidance and climate change adaptation. We believe that this Conference will be a success and that by its end we will find a compromise for the issues over which we still have differing opinions and adopt the provisions of the Rule Book necessary for full implementation of the Paris Agreement ta rgets. Thank you for your attention.