STATEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA to the Twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC Thirteen th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the P arties to the Kyoto Protocol Second part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement Bonn, Germany, 6 to 17 November 201 7 Presented by Igor Čižmek, B.Sc. Arch. ASSISTANT MINISTER MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMEN T AND ENERGY Mr President, Excellences, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is my great pleasure and honour to convey the warmest thanks to the Government and the people of the Republic of Fiji for organiz ing and the Federal Republic of Germany for h osting these prominent Conferences in th is beautiful country and the city of Bonn. The Paris Agreement represents a historic turning point in the reinforcement of the global common spirit and the transformation into a low carbon society resilient to clima te change. Countries as well as non -state stakeholders remain strongly committed to the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Mr President, We are in very important phase of operationalization of the Paris Agreement in the sense that we need to establish rules and processes necessary to provide operational guidance as well as promote a message of unity amongst Parties, trust and confidence in the process as a key moment. The transparency framework should be designed to encourage and promote continuous improvement over time. We find that for this capacity building and transfer of experience are of crucial importance. We must never out of sight the importance of the cooperation between countries and further work on the inclusion of al l countries in the world in the climate and environmental protection. We must activate all our efforts to preserve the environment for future generations, and related to it I would like to thank to all those who, despite the many obstacles and difficulties, continue in these efforts. Mr President, distinguished delegates, The Republic of Croatia is a small country that in fact contributes very little to the overall greenhouse gas emissions, but, like all other countries, is already exposed to climate chan ges to a significant extent. The question is only in what extent will these negative trends take place in the future and that will depend on the success of our joint efforts to slow down climate changes. In order to be better prepared and to build resilient society, Croatia has been finaliz ing its Adaptation strategy until 2040 and with the view to 2070, with an Action plan. At the same time, we are undertaking reduction emission measures, and w e see low carbon development as the challenge for Croatia. It is an opportunity to improve the existing infrastructure and technological solutions through innovation, transfer of advanced technologies and significant structural changes in all sectors. These changes will encourage industrial growth, investment cycle and development of new businesses. Let me conclude by repeating that Croatia firmly stands behind the global efforts that aim to minimize climate change and we fully believe in the success of the Paris Ag reement. Thank you for your attention.