STATEMENT by H.E. Mr. Marian Jurečka Minister of the Environment of the Czech Republic at the Sharm El -Sheikh Climate Conference Distinguished Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Let me first express my appreciation to the Egyptian Presidency – His Excellency Sameh Shoukry and his team - for hosting this landmark international climate conference. It is really important that after adopting the whole set of rules to implement the Paris Agreement, we have now turned our joint efforts to the implementa tion of commitments adopted at previous climate conferences, in particular in Glasgow conference last year. Its outcome, the Glasgow Climate Pact, provide s the substantial basis for the current negotiations and further climate action. The latest reports of the Inter governmental Panel on Climate Change bring clear evidence of advancing detrimental impact s of climate change. Regardless of country or region we come from, w e are already confronted with them in our everyday lives. The science tells us the situation is urgent and we must act now. Despite we have collectively taken many measures, these are still not sufficient and a serious ambition gap remains in many areas. We must persevere in this difficult job and speed up international efforts to mitigate the detrimental climate effects and enhance adapt ion to climate change. The Czech Republic, as a member of the European Union, is well aware of the fact that the energy and security crisis we are currently facing cannot be an excuse for neglecting the climate crisis. As the EU and its Member States we have taken on jointly commitment to raise our climate ambition, to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gas es by at least 55 % by 2030 and to reach climate neutralit y by 2050. Securing this goal requires a complex of fundamental measures in transforming the way we produce and use energy, addressing economic and social implications, and deploying innovative techno logies. As the country currently presiding the Council of the EU, we are working hard on the Fit for 55 package that translates our Paris agreement commitment into legislation. Recently we reached important agreement within the EU on three pieces of legislation that introduce new targets for : - emissions cuts in sectors such as buildings, road transport, agriculture or waste, - CO2 emission for new cars and vans and - Land use, land use change and forestry (LULUCF). Through these, we are turning our reduction pledges into binding laws. In addition, a lso in the Czech Republic, in response to the energy crisis and extreme price increases of energy, we accelerate the energy savings. For the most vulnerable groups of our citizens we have just launched a “New Green Savings Programme - Light”. It will enable those without adequate financial means to insulate th eir houses in order to ensure prevention of heat leakage. This way they can significantly cut down both their en ergy consumption CO2 emissions. Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, The negotiations at expert level last week showed that finding solutions requires mutual understanding of problems and interests of our partners, be it mitigation, adaptation, loss and dam age or climate finances. During the last days of the COP27 w e, as ministers, must build on the hard work of our experts and repeat the success from Glasgow by a new success from Sharm el Sheik – only that way we can keep our Paris objectives alive and real.