1 Minister of the Environment of the Czech Republic at the 22th session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the 12th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the 1st session of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, Marrakesh, 16th November 2016 Dear Mr. President, Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, distingu ished delegates, Firstly, let me express my utmost gratitude to the Government and People of Morocco and in particular to His Majesty King Mohammed VI, for hosting this climate conference and for the warm welcome in this beautiful historical city of Marrakech. We appreciate the high level of commitment and great efforts of the Moroccan Presidency that made the Marrakech Conference as successful as the climate conference held in this city in 2001. I would also like to associate myself with the statements made by the EU and its Member States. By adopting the Paris Agreement last year in Paris we reached a new historical milestone in the global efforts to combat climate change. We appreciate that the good spirit of Paris conference continued also after Paris and enabled an early entry into force of the Agreement. The Czech Republic fully supported the ratification of the Paris Agreement by the EU which hel ped us to reach the thresholds for the entry into force. At national level, we are fully committed to finalise our ratification process of the Paris Agreement very soon. We strongly believe that the Paris Agreement will become a crucial instrument to cope with the climate change challenges and threats and will guide our future action and effort in this regard. Jointly with the EU and its Member States, we have submitted an ambitious commitment to further reduce the greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 p er cent by 2030 compared to 1990. The Czech Republic is currently well on track to fulfil its commitments under the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2014 were 37 per cent below the 1990 levels. A new Climate Protection Policy in the Czech Republic, which will serve as our low carbon development strategy is expected to be adopted in March 2017. The Policy suggests reaching a long term goal to reduce GHG emissions in 2050 by 80 per cent and that all key economic sectors will contribute to achieving this goal with specific measures. In addition, the Czech Republic has invested significant financial resources in energy efficiency and green heating in various sectors 2 including households and industry. The total budget for these measures will reach more than 2 bill. E uro by 2020. Adaptation planning is an essential part of the Czech climate protection policy. In 2015, o ur Government adopted a comprehensive Strategy on Adaptation. The Strategy will be implemented through its National Action Plan on Adaptation, which is currently being submitted to the Government for approval. We are aware of the fact that the poorest and most vulnerable countries are dependent on support to address their domestic climate challenges and risks. In this respect I am pleased to inform you that the Czech Republic provided in total 8, 1 mil. EUR of climate finance in 2015 through its bilateral and multilateral channels and is prepared to continue to provide nece ssary support to developing countries in order to assist them in their adaptation and mitigation needs and efforts. Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, This year, we have witnessed the hottest year in modern global temperature record -keeping. It is a clear signal for us that there is no time to waste. We must focus on effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and make every effort to set a path to guide us to our low carbon future which will be sustainable and safe not only for us but also for future generations. Thank you for your attention.