1 National Statement Democratic People’s Republic of Korea High -Level Segment, UNFCCC COP 27 (Sharm El -Sheik, Egypt, 15-16 November 2022) Mr. President, Distinguished Ministers and D elegates, At the outset, on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), I would like to express my confidence that the current meeting will turn out to be successful under the able leadership of H.E. Mr. Sameh Shoukry, Foreign Minister of Egypt and President of the COP 27. My appreciation goes to t he Egyptian Government and the UNFCCC S ecretariat for excellent preparation of the COP 27. I also take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Simon Stiell, the new UNFCCC Executive Secretary. Mr. President, Thirty years have passed since the adoption of the UNFCCC at the Rio Summit in 1992. Economic development has brought significant benefits to the humankind. However, continued overexploi tation of natural resources and environmental destruction are casting a dark shadow on survival and future of the mankind. Ever increasing frequent natural d isasters and global health crises including COVID -19 are signaling that more catastrophic consequences may occur, if human ity pursue s only immediate interests without respecting the natural environment, the base of its life. 2 In recent years, international community ha s made effort s to reduce the damage s from climate change and, as a result, adopted the Paris Agreement. However, the challenges and difficulties facing us require taking more decisive and substantial action s to implement the existing commitments. Climate change is dire ctly related to the future destiny of mankind, and is a pressing issue that can no longer be remain ed indifferent by resorting to empty talks. We should all endeavor to make the current conference, held in this beautiful city of Sharm El -Sheik, a successful gathering that provides a turning point in responding to climate change. Mr. President, The DPRK d elegation is of the view that the COP 27 needs to pay due at tention to the following issues; First, the developed countries – the major responsible parties for the current pl ight of climate change – should fulfill their historical and moral responsibilities. Climate change has been brought about by the developed countries over the past 100 -odd years. But today the developing countries are suffering the most from the damage s there of. Developed countries should implement w ith sincerity their commitment s of USD 100 B illion Climate Financ e for the developing countries and doubling this amount by the year 2025, as stipulated in the Paris Agreement, rather than evading their moral obligations and responsibilit ies. Second, due attention should be paid to the attempts of certain countries to explo it the issue of response to climate change for attaining their political goals and economic profits. 3 Making the response to climate change as a bargaining chip, as if it were benefit ting other countries, is an act tantamount to a gamble on the very destiny of humanity, an inhumane act that is unacceptable by whatsoever. International community should no longer show tolerance towards the irresponsible and immoral practices of certain countries who are trying to avoid their historical responsibilit ies for cl imate change and instead, to take advantage of this issue by pursu ing their political goals and economic profit. Third, concrete and practical measures to respond to climate change should be urgently taken. After the adoption of the Paris Agreement, international community met every year to express the political will to address climate change and has formulated the rulebook for its implementation. However, it has yet to agree on important issues such as technical and financial assistance to the developing c ountries and carbon trade, etc. In order to actively respond to climate change, it is also necessary to establish a system for introduc ing and shar ing scientific and technological achievements and experiences that the humankind has so far achieved. In particular, methodologi es should be explored positively to share numerous achievements gained in low/ze ro-emission related sci-tech such as carbon capture and renewable energy production, and actively utilize them in reality. Mr. President, Under the wise leadership of Comrade Kim Jong Un, President of the State Affairs of the Democr atic People’s Republic of Korea, the G overnment is undertaking the ecological and environmental protection as an importan t task to protect our people ’s life and health and make the greener landscape of the country while 4 giving great consideration to it as a strategic project related to the future of the country. The DPRK is making the legal framework for responding to climate change more complete, including the “Law on Environmental Protection”, “Law on Renewable Energy”, “Law on Forest”, “Law on Energy Management”, etc. and a comprehensive long-term green growth plan aimed at protect ing and enhanc ing the country’s ecosystem is under development. Active meas ures are being taken to reduce GHGs, namely, the development of natural energy including wind and tidal powers and geothermal energy, the work to convert overall industry including chemical and metallurgical sect ors into energy -saving types, zero - energy & zero-carbon building technology, smart building technology, etc. The Government has also been vigorously pushing forward the project of planting 6.3 billion trees during 2015 -2024 period, as planned, to create 2 million hectare s of forest. As a Party to the Convention and the Paris Agreement, the DPRK will fulfill its responsibility to protect our common living ground and ensur e more comfortable and stable living environment for future generation s, and to this end, will closely cooperate with other Parties and relevant I nternational Organizations. Thank you.