Mr.President The delegation of Democratic People’s Republic of Korea joins other delegations in congratulating the government of the Kingdom of Moroc co for successfully organizing and hosting the <UN Climate Change Conference> in the beautiful city of Marrakech. At the same tim e my delegation once again welcome s and applaud wonderful news that the historic <Paris Agreement> has entered into force on the 4th of November 2016. Mr. President, Integrating climate change considerations into relevant socio -economic development strategies is considered as one of the important measures to ensure the sust ainable development in DPRK. In accordance with 5 -year strategy for national economic development a dopted in May 2016, national economic development, national energy and climate change issues are to be addressed simultaneously by improving the efficiency of electric power generating facilities and by scaling up the utilization of renewable energy. Speci fically, progress was recently made in conducting the forest restoration campaign in DPRK as one of the measures taken by the government in combating the climate change, under the wise leadership of the respected Comrade KIM JONG UN, Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the DPRK. The DPRK has ratified the Paris Agreement on 1 August 2016 and fully committed to achieving goals for reduction of GHG in its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution(INDC) which was submitted on 3 October 2016. The DPRK’ s INDC includes a mitigation and an adaptation components. In the mitigation component, as unconditional contribution, DPRK intends to achieve with domestic resources the reduction of GHG emissions by 8% by 2030 as compared to Business as Usual scenario(BA U). With international financial support, technology transfer and capacity building the conditional national contribution could be increased up to more than 40%. When considering the development priorities and adaptation needs in DPRK as one of the develop ing countries, international support under the Paris Agreement is required to encourage the DPR Korea to scale up its mitigation measures to the level contributa ble to addressing global climate change. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continu e to make efforts to achieve the contribution beyond the level committed in the INDC, based on the effective mobilization of domestic resources and international support, thus actively contributing to achieving the objectives of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement. Thank you very much.