Page 1/1 Danish Ministry of Energy, Utilities and Climate Stormgade 2 -6 DK-1470 Copenhagen K P: +45 3392 2800 E: efkm@efkm.dk www.efkm.dk Denmark’s National Statement to the COP24 By Minister of Energy, Utilities and Climate Lars Christian Lilleholt Ladies and gentlemen. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. We must prevent it from becoming the enemy of our planet’s future. The world is watching to see if we are up for the task. We must agree to a strong rulebook. And through the Talanoa Dialogue, we must leave COP24 with the shared understanding that more climate action is needed by all. Denmark’s vision is clear. We need to aim for limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. The latest IPCC report shows that we are not on track. We must change course. My message is that we can do it. Denmark’s story i s that we have made green energy cheaper than fossil energy. We have come far. And we are going full steam ahead. All of our power will be green by 2030. So will most of our heating. Furthermore, o ur ambition is that the last diesel and gasoline cars will be sold by 2030. And we are aiming for net zero emissions by 2050 at the latest. Denmark also delivers as part of the EU. We will work for a climate neutral EU by 2050 at the latest. And to enhanc e the EU’s contribution to the Paris Agreement. As a self -governing part of Denmark, the Faroe Islands have independent climate goals. By 2030, green energy will provide all electricity in the Faroe Islands. By 2025, green energy will heat at least half o f all households. Denmark is a small country – but determined to play a leading role in the green transition. In October, Denmark hosted the first summit of the global alliance for green growth, P4G. We are also proud to lead the “Clean Energy Investment Coalition ”. We aim to facilitate more climate action towards the UN Secretary General’s Climate Summit in 2019. The money is out there, the green technologies are getting much cheaper. Now we need to show the political will to reach our common goals. We must lead the way. Let us work together here in Katowice and show the way forward. Thank you for your attention!