Side 1/4 Center Center for Vision og Strategi Team Strategi Dato 9. november 2022 J nr. 2022 -4059 / MOEGT Excellencies. Ladies and Gentlemen. We are a fleet in a perfect storm. Energy shortage. A food crisis. And the conse- quences of climate change being more apparent than ever. The hard truth is that we are heading in the wrong direction. However, the course we must take is well known. It was laid out in the Paris Agreement a nd underlined last year in the Glasgow Climate Pact: We must Scale up renewable energy and energy efficiency measures. P hase down coal and other fossil sources of energy. Increase finance for climate action and adaptation. And we must urgently address the issue of loss and damage. Side 2/4 To make this happen. To get on the right course. We need all hands -on deck. And Denmark is fully com- mitted to do our part. Denmark has one of most ambitious climate laws in the world. We will reduce our greenhouse gas emis- sions with 70 percent before 2030. We have taken action on all sectors; including en- ergy, industry, transportation and agriculture. And we decided to put a price on carbon by introducing a broadbased carbon tax. Denmark also remains committed to delivering on our climate finance commitments. We will continue to support the most vulnerab le nations in their green transformation and to adapt to the impacts of cli- mate change. Side 3/4 Now, allow me to share a few words on behalf of the Faroe Islands and Gree nland. Faroe Islands have adopted a new climate policy with 25 initiatives targeting an ambitious 50 percent emission re duction over the next 10 years with a de- termination of greening the blue economy as a pro- vider of sustainable marine food products and re- newable energy. Greenland is a self -governing Arctic country and part of the Kingdom of Denmark. For the 26th year in a row, the Greenland ice cap has shrunk. Instead of passively watching the ice melt, Green- land takes action to create a sustainable future with global impact. Side 4/4 Greenland has enormous hydropower potentials that can be used in the transition from fossil energy to green energy. The Government of Greenland has declared that the hydropower potentials are open for international in- vestments as a pathway towards low gr eenhouse gas emissions and climate -resilient development. Finally - in conclusion In a world with with many problems. In the middle of - what some might call the perfect storm - COP27 is a chance for us to set a new course. One that will take us through the storm - stronger than when we started. Thank you.