®e @ ®@ Danish Ministry a of Energy, Utilities and Climate Denmark’s National Statement to the COP22 By Deputy Permanent Secretary Kristoffer Béttzauw Ladies and Gentlemen, On the fourth of November we reached a historic milestone. The Paris Agreement came into force. This is a victory for all of us. And it shows how far global cooperation and determination can take us. However, we must not forget that there is still a lot to be done. Both inside and outside the negotiation rooms. Climate change is a reality. Especially the developing countries are feeling them. It is a fact that we must face. And together we must finish the job that we have started. We must secure a strong global implementation of the agreement. And this demands action from all parties. We also need action from the private sector. The private sector holds the key to develop the climate solutions we need. But we need to help them. To tackle climate change successfully we must create the right conditions and send them the right signals. That will shift global investments towards low-carbon solutions and help us fulfill the Paris Agreement. Denmark is committed to this. Denmark has ratified the Paris Agreement and the Faore Islands, that is an independent part of Denmark, will contribute with extra reduction targets. Sharing our domestic competencies on energy with other countries is a strong priority for Denmark. And | am happy to tell you that the Danish government has just received a record low bid of five eurocents per kilo watt hour for the offshore wind project, Kriegers Flak. Offshore wind can now compete with new fossil energy. We also support the “NDC Partnership” and we expect to earmark 45 million US dollars in twenty seventeen to adaptation and mitigation activities. In Paris we finished more than 20 years of negotiating. Now let us get to work and jointly show the world and ourselves that we can deliver on our promises and create a long lasting transformation. Danish Ministry of Energy, Thank you Utilities and Climate Stormgade 2-6 DK-1470 Copenhagen K P: +45 3392 2800 E: efkm@efkm.dk Page 1/1 www.efkm.dk