STATEMENT BY HIS EXCELLENCY HONOURABLE DR. ROOSEVELT SKERRIT PRIME MINISTER COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE TWENTY-SECOND CONFERENCT OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNFCCC AND THE ‘TWELFTH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES SERVING AS THE MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL (COP 22 AND CMP 12) Marrakech, Motocco 15% November, 2016 Thank you Mr. President, Your Majesty, Excellencies, Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Friends, I would like to extend my deepest appreciation to His Majesty the King, Mohammed VI, the Government and the People of the Kingdom of Morocco for the hospitality that has been extended to my delegation. I would also like to thank the UNFCCC Secretariat for all the work they have been doing in order to ensure efficiency in the work we need to do. We have traveled from afat to join the rest of the world to celebrate the historical record breaking entry into force of the Paris Agreement. Never before in the history of the United Nations Organization has a treaty been ratified less than one year after it was agteed upon. We are also celebrating the First Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Patties to the Paris Agreement. At the Paris meeting last year, we demonstrated to the world, and especially to the most vulnerable, that our concerns for our planet is above and beyond all other considerations. The Patis Agreement became the watershed for the fight to combat climate change that was desperately needed to give hope to billions of people. We should also be equally proud of the unprecedented speed at which Member States ratified the Paris Agreement making it come into force in less than a year. COP 22, should therefore be used to bring the Patis Agreement to life by committing outselves to ensuring immediate action on the key aspects of the Agreement. This calls for the implementation of modalities that are urgent and central to achieving a cap on global temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius. We cannot afford to lose the momentum and the political will that we currently enjoy. Our people are depending on us to bring our commitments into action in order to save our planet. Last September, Dominica joined the Member States that ratified the Paris Agreement. We, like all Small Island Developing States (SIDS), know too well of the perilous impact of climate change. Our commitment to taking climate change action, as defined in our Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC). is therefore unshakable. This is why we are waiting to be triggered but rather, the impact of climate change is an ongoing event that has affected island people and the rest of the world in so many ways. On August 2015, my countty was reminded of the devastating impact of climate change with the loss of more than 90% of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in less than 24 houts by the passage of Tropical Storm Erika. These severe meteorological events threaten the very existence of small vulnerable island states like Dominica. The frequent damage to our country’s vital infrastructure coupled with the slow onset events occasioned by climate change, makes it impossible for SIDS to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) without robust mitigation actions and adaptive measures to adapt to the impact ready being felt. We need to act now! Reiterating our commitment to action, is the high level of ambition proposed by our Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). However, we cannot deliver on these actions without international financing. It seems only fair that those who have contributed the most to Greenhouse Gas emissions, and have benefitted the most from the industrial petiod, should contribute more to the solution than those whose standard of living and economic progress has been detailed by the adverse effects of climate change. We are looking for a commitment from developing countries to scale up the provision of finance to achieve the minimum tatget of US$100 billion annually by 2020. Dominica has recently received approval from the Green Climate Fund for a priority mitigation project defined in our Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) and Low Carbon Climate Resilient Strategy. However, financing is still urgently required for priority adaptation measures to address the risks associated with more frequent extreme events such as Tropical Storm Erika, and to ensure equitable payment for the loss and damage that continues to be suffered by my country due to climate change impacts. I say this to you as the leader of a small island developing state, as a leader of people whose homes and assets have been set adrift by flashfloods, whose livelihoods and stability have been turned to dust by drought and scorched by high temperatures, whose loved ones have been buried by landslides. I speak to you as a leadet of people who have become climate refugees on a small island without the luxury of space to feasibly relocate. Over the past few years, we have experienced the adverse impacts from a less than one- degree tise above pre-industrial levels. Our progress is consistently hindered by debt incutred to rebuild time and time again, storm after storm. We simply cannot afford anv further tises in temperature. This is mote than an envitonmental issue. This is a for indecisiveness. 100 Manly COU - Tt is important that we find the right entry points to ensure sustainable and enhanced actions - Itis important that use sound science to support action, and we couple that with the tight kinds of action : - Itis important that the right capacity is built to take advantage of technology and climate finance - It is important that an integrated approach is adopted to ensure the myriad of sectors and perspectives are considered Ladies and gentlemen, humanity is at a ctitical juncture in our fight against Climate Change. The time has come fot us as a human species to right the wrongs and own up to our differentiated responsibilities. We owe it to the spirits of those who have petished as a result of Climate Change. We owe it to ourselves and to future generations. COP22 must not be only consolidate and seen as a follow up to the historic Paris Agreement, but should also be a COP of Vision and vision. The vision must be clear, out legacy embracing but our action must be urgent in order to reverse the trend of greenhouse gas emission from the last century. Thank you