ሃገረ ኤርትራ ሚኒስትሪ መሬት ፡ማይን ኣከባብን Statement by H.E. Mr. Tesfai Ghebreselassie Sebhatu Minister of Land, Water and Environment The State of Eritrea UNFCCC -COP 28, Nov. –13 Dec. Dubai, UAE Honorable Chairperson Excellences Heads of Delegation Distinguished Participants, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first to join previous speakers to express our gratitude to the government and people of UAE for the warm hospitality accorded to my delegation. I also congratulate UAE on their election to the Presidency of COP 28 andonthefinancial pledge they made to boost global climate finance. Mr. Chairperson, For a long time now, science has ominously predicted the perilous consequences of human -induced global warming that could pose existential threat in the absence of robust remedial measures. Numerous reputable stakeholders, eminent personalities and conscientious environmental advocates also have been calling world governments to do all what it takes to deter climate change. Indeed, the severity and pervasiveness of the impacts of globa lwarming are too obvious.These cogent facts impelled world community of nations to engage for decades in a series of endless and intensive negotiations, in order to determine and agree on the scale and tempo of green -house gases’ emission reduction, which is crucial to mitigate global warming. It must be underlin ed,that considerable consensus has been reached on several environment governance issues. The rise of global environmental awareness as well the advancement made in renewable energy technology as a solution are also noteworthy. However, when it comes to the crux of the overarching challenge of ghg emission reduction to the level recommended by science, the result remains sad and preoccupying. As we humans push nature to the brink of the limit of its capacity to cope with atmosphe ric pollution, every event amplifies that time is not in our favor in the bid to heal our planet from the damages perpetrated by past and present human activities. THE STATE OF ERITREA Ministry of Land, Water & Environmentدوﻟﺔ ارﺗﺮﯾﺎ وزارة اﻻراﺿﻲواﻟﻤﯿﺎه واﻟﺒﯿﺌﺔThe extreme weather events that caused immense harm on the lives and livelihoods of millions of people during this outgoing year in many parts of the globe should not to be taken lightly. As a continuation of worsening conditions, they portend peril the magnitude of which is hard to imagine. Mr. Chairperson, Eritrea’s emission is negl igible and inconsequential by all standards. Yet, as one of the African countries south of the Saharan region, where desert encroachment is rampant and erratic pattern of rainfall and outbreak of swarms of locust have becom efrequent phenomenon, we are among the most impacted by global warming and climate alteration. In facing this formidable challenge, we have been engaged in finding nature -based solutions; primarily through ecosystem restoration activities that help enhance climate resilience and adaptive capacity of our communities. And w eare determined to continue these activities for generations at a widespread national scale. However, our non -emitter or less -emitter country status cannot be taken for granted. Naturally, we need and deserve to grow fast our economy. Towards the achievement of this objective, we will have to tackle energy poverty, which continues to be among the critical barriers to our developmental effort. These undertakings will require us to make big investment to replace old and inefficient thermal power plants that need to be retired, build new ones and install expansive renewable energy facilities, as wel l as minimize systems ’loss in transmission, distribution and consumption. In this regard, my country is highly appreciative of all development partners who extend their support in capacity building, transfer of technology and favorable terms of financing needed for the success of our effort to develop and adapt to climate change. Mr. Chairperson My delegation believes that the policies of developed country parties, usually guided as they are by narrow national interests, are inconsiderate about the legitimate concerns, developmental challenges and priorities of the developing world. Taking the grave consequences of global climate chang einto account, economic and technological limitation and arguments of pr agmat ism,used by the developed world to cover their failure to shoulder their moral eresponsibilities to reduce their emission is hard to comprehend, let alone condone. Everyoneknows, because it is openly declared,that hundreds of billions of dollar are spent to fan devastating conflicts. To break the impasse, Eritrea joins its voice with the parties who strongly urge the developed country parties to take the issue of global climate change seriously and observe their moral responsibly, as per the basic tenets of the Convention and into acco unttheParis Agreement. Mr. Chairperson, In conclusion, I would like to express Eritrean delegation’s best wishes for COP 28 UAE to come out with deliberations that will impart it historical relevance. Far from hoping against hope, our fervent expectation is that COP 28 -UAE will indeed be instrumental in convincing all parties to solemnly shoulder their responsibilities and do their respective fair part, so as to save our commonly shared planet from th e perilous grips of global climate crisis. Such commitment will constitute an eloquent testament and inspiring proof of genuine global partnership that augurs well for mutual human progress, and maintenance of the natural integrity, health and livability of our planet. True partnership really promotes progress! I Thank you for your attention.