ESWATINI NATIONAL STATEMENT – CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE 2022 Mr. President Heads of State and Government, Secretary General of the United Nations The Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC Excellences and Colleagues Distinguished Delegates It is with great honour for me to present this statement on behalf of the head of state of the K ingdom of Eswatini, His Majesty King Mswati III, at this aug ust gathering. Mr President, Allow me to congratulate the government of the Republic of Egypt for the excellent task of ensuring that we gather in this beautiful city of Sharm el -Sheikh and with a clear vision for implementation. Mr. President, We come to Sharm el -Sheikh with great exp ectation s, and encouraged by your leadership in setting the theme of this COP to that of implementation. We have seen escalating impacts of climate change, despite all the meetings, agreements and commitments we have made over the past 30 years of negotiations under the UNFCC C. It is time our actions match our words. Unfortunately we have already lost a lot of time, with great disappointment, observed some develop ed countries not only fail ing to provide the promised US$ 100 billion per year, but also swing -back to fossil fuels despite the Glasgow Pact. Failing to reduce Green House Gas emissions is setting the earth on an accelerated pathway of loss and damage, which is hard to reverse. We have come to a point where the urgency to mitigate and adapt is being overshadowed by the need to deal with the loss and damage we are already facing and experienced, hence the ne ed for a Loss and Damage financing facility. We are happy though that the issue of loss and damage is now part of the discussion. We can no longer afford to reduce the need for the facility to a dialogue; and it’s financing should be additional to that of adaptation and mitigation. Mr. President, in Eswatini we are at the beginning of our rainfall season, yet we still have not recovered from last season’s disaster impacts which left some people dead others homeless and unprecedented damage to infrastruct ure, which also affected the country’s economic activities. This calls for immediate action, especially with respect to building resilience and support for responding to the different losses and damages. Finally, Mr. President, if we are to achieve our cli mate ambition leading to net zero emissions, we must leave no one behind. We believe it is time to consider how we can afford Taiwan an opportunity to contribute to the global vision of net zero emissions and do its part in the global fights against climat e change. Eswatini calls on the UNFCCC to support Taiwan’s professional, pragmatic, and constructive participation in the UNFCCC, the Paris Agreement and associated mechanism. Thank you