1 STATEMENT BY HIS MAJESTY AND INGWENYAMA OF THE KINGDOM OF ESWATINI: 26TH CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNFCCC. Mr. President, Heads of States and Governments, Secretary General of the United Nations, The Executive Secretary of the UNFC CC, Excellences and Colleagues, Distinguished Delegates. It is with great honour for me to present this Statement on behalf of His Majesty King Mswati III and the Eswatini nation at this a ugust gathering. Mr. President, Allow me to congratulate the Government of the United Kingdom for the excellent task of ensuring that we gather in this physical session here in this beautiful City of Glasgow, despite the COVID -19 pandemic limitations and related uncertainties. Eswatini believes that you and the Secretariat braved such odds to present the sense of urgency on the need to accelerate mitigation ambition during this critical decade, in order to keep the 1.5 degrees Celsius in reach in line with the Paris Agr eement temperature goal. We pledge our support to you and my 2 delegation is committed to involvement in all deliberations to ensure a successful outcome of this Conference, includ ing the completion of the rules governing the implementation of Paris Agreement. Mr. President, The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Report shows that 1.5 degrees Celsius of global warming is likely to occur, and Eswatini together with all of Southern Africa warms at twice the global rate. We therefore can expect that the SADC region will experience nor less than a 3 degrees’ Celsius warming. This is happening amidst the extreme weather events already experienced such as heatwaves, floods and droughts. The w arnings are clear that these events will dramatically increase in intensity and frequency over the coming years. The livelihoods of emaSwati depend heavily on agriculture, which suffered the drastic effects of Cyclone Eloise. Such extreme weather patterns have resulted in a dramatic decline in agricultural production. Despite the restrictions caused by the COVID 19 Pandemic, Eswatini is taking bold action to address climate change, with significant national resources being allocated to adaptation and mitigation actions in a balanced approach. We understand the urgency of climate action and have adopted policies and programmes such as the National Climate Change Policy, National Development Strategy and the COVID -19 Economic Recovery Strategy which incorporate robust climate action. We have pledged to considerably raise investment in and access to renewable energy to the population by increasing the share of renewable energy to 50% in the electricity mix by 2030 relative to 2010 levels through the adoption of solar, wind, biomass, hydro, and solar water heater technologies. 3 Mr President, Developing countries, especially Africa includ ing small states like Eswatini are ready to transform their economies, however, without the much needed adequate, predictable, and accessible financial support this remains an impossible task for us. We therefore emphasize the importance of the delivery of support for developing countries, including through the fulfilment of the developed country goal of jointly mobilizing US$100 billion per year by 2020 and annually through to 2025, in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implem entation, and delivering a significant increase in finance for adaptation. Mr. President, Eswatini continues to fully support the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and has submitted her enhanced and ambitious, updated National Determined Contributions (NDCs) which focus on all sectors. This is despite the fact that as a nation we contribute as little as 0.007% share to the Global GHG emissions. We call upon all Parties to be as transparent and communicate their new or updated NDCs of highest possible ambition, and long- term strategies that set out a pathway towards net zero in order to keep the targeted 1.5 degree Celsius objective of the Paris Agreement. Mr President, As this COP calls for the world to collectively respond to the climate change challenge, Eswatini notes that, for purely political reasons, Taiwan’s participation in the UNFCCC is restricted to the very limited quota of an NGO and it is still being denied the opportunity to submit its ambitious NDCs to the UNFCCC 4 Secretariat. This contradicts the spirit of the second UN principle of living no one behind. Responding to climate change requires solidarity and courage. For the UNFCCC to be effective, we plead that Taiwan be afforded the opportunit y to participate in global mechanisms, negotiations, and activities that promote the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Taiwan exhorts all parties to look beyond political considerations and support Taiwan’s professional, pragmatic, and meaningful participation in the UNFCCC. We therefore register our call for Taiwan help do its part in the global fight against climate change. Finally, Eswatini commits to advance negotiations under the UNFCCC process to reach an ambitious, inclusive, balanced, rules -based and durable outcome at this COP. I thank you Mr. President. May God the Almighty bless us all.