COP President, Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama, Excellencies, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen, 1. It is an honour and pleasure to address you today at this Island COP. I thank the Fijian Presidency and people of Bonn for their hospitality and generosity in hosting the Bonn Climate Conference. 2. I am pleased to address this audience on behalf of the 47 Least Developed Countries. Excellencies, 3. COP23 represents a critical step in the work of the international community to address climate change. 4. It comes at a time when the need for urgency of action on climate change has never been clearer. The world has experienced devastating events exacerbated by climate change over the past year, from deadly hurricanes and flooding, to severe droughts, wildfires and heatwaves, all creating irreversible loss and damage. 5. The LDCs are particularly vulnerable to these climate impacts. Yet we contribute negligible emissions and feel the most devastating impacts of climate change acutely. Excellencies, 6. The LDCs face the unique and unprecedented challenge of lifting our people out of poverty and achieving sustainable development without relying on fossil fuels. We face the additional challenge of trying to do this while building the resilience of our communities and economies to severe climate shocks. 7. While international political progress on climate change in recent years has been significant, countries are still far from implementing actions on the scale required to steer the planet away from dangerous climate change and achieve the goals we reaffirmed in Paris. We have collectively agreed to limit average global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-­‐industrial levels. We have also collectively agreed to significantly increase global adaptive capacity and build long-­‐term climate-­‐resilience. Achieving these goals are critical for the survival of our countries and communities. 8. We need to match these words with action. 2020 is a watershed moment to bend the emissions curve and keep temperature increases below 1.5 degrees. To do this, we have no option but to enhance NDCs before 2020. 9. We also need a fair and equitable global response to advance the interests and aspirations of all countries and peoples. 10. This requires higher climate ambition by all countries in a manner that is consistent with our responsibility for climate change and our capacity to respond. We must close the emissions gap to avoid further devastating climate change impacts and address the key issues of adaptation and irreversible loss and damage. 11. Pre-­‐2020 ambition, action and support for developing countries is vital to this effort. Excellencies, 12. We must also urgently bridge the widening finance gap. The cost of transitioning to low-­‐carbon, climate-­‐resilient societies is great and the scale of irreversible loss and damage is growing. Climate finance must grow and flow to meet these needs. 13. So far, the aggregate partial financial needs for adaptation as expressed by some least developed countries in their national determined contributions amount to more than US $200 billion, noting that not all LDCs have included their adaptation needs in their NDCs. 14. Scaled up and predictable climate finance, technology and capacity building are vital to enabling LDCs, small island developing states and other developing countries to implement pledges made under the Paris Agreement that contribute to global goals. 15. We must take important decisions on some issues here at COP23, such as agreeing that the Adaptation Fund shall indeed serve the Paris Agreement. 16. Global solidarity and support from the international community are critical for the achievement of our ambitious climate plans. Excellencies, 17. The LDCs hope that by the end of this COP we leave Bonn having made progress on substantive issues with a clear way forward for the coming year to complete the the Paris Agreement Work Programme. 18. We hope the Talanoa dialogue will clarify how we can strengthen our national contributions, manage a phase out of fossil fuels, promote renewable energy and implement climate action. 19. We stand ready to support the Fijian Presidency and look forward to outcomes that will translate the goals we have all agreed into the concrete actions vital to ensuring the prosperity of present and future generations. Excellencies, let me say a few words about my Country 20. My Country has been doing its level best to address Sustainable Development Goals through the implementation of the Climate Resilient Green Economy Strategy. From the initiation to implementation, the CRGE aimed at building a green economy with nationwide emission reduction target and adaptation to the changing climate. 21. Ethiopia intends to limit its net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2030 to 145 Mt CO2e or lower. This would constitute a 255 MtCO2e reduction from the projected ‘business-­‐as-­‐ usual’ (BAU) emissions in 2030 or a 64% reduction from the BAU scenario in 2030. Ethiopia also intends to undertake adaptation initiatives to reduce the vulnerability of its population, environment and economy to the adverse effects of climate change, based on its Climate Resilient Green Economy Strategy (CRGE). 22. The Second National Growth and Transformation Plan included both the CRGE and INDC showing that building a Green Economy is a national agenda. To do this, we will seize the opportunities presented by low carbon technologies and invest in green industries. This will require partnerships between the public and the private sector. 23. Involving the private sector plays a pivotal role if we need to meet the national and international long-­‐term targets. I believe public-­‐private-­‐partnership (PPP) with will be critical for meeting the sustainable development Goals. My country is putting effort to engage the private sector and non-­‐state actors in different sectors including renewable energy. Focus on public-­‐private partnerships has increased in recent years, with the establishment and deployment of develop industrial zones and parks. I thank you.