Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union 1 Statement on behalf of the European Union and its Member States Opening Plenary of the Ministerial Segment of COP25 Madrid, 10 December 2019, @ 9:00 Dear Presiden t, Distinguished Hea ds of State and Govern ment, Ministers, Colleagues, Allow me to start by expressing our full support to the Chilean Presidency in guiding our work and by thank ing the Government of Spain for their solidarity and support to the multilateral process by making this meeting possible. The EU is he re to work with all its international partners to find robust and long lasting solutions to our shared challenges. We will spare no effort to secure these outcomes. This Ministerial S egment is taking place against a stark backdrop: the scientific findings are increasingly alarming, greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere have reached another new record high and the negative impacts of climate change are increasingly felt all around our planet. Youth and civil society continue to call for urgent and ambitious action, and rightly so. There really is no room for complacency. At this COP governments must show their determination and their readiness to enhance ambition and step up climate action. This message is critical to the outside world, to our stakeholders and constituencies. The political narrative coming out of COP25 will need to capture our resolve. For the remaining days here in Madrid, we will redouble our efforts to ensure a successful outcome at COP 25: • We want to s ecure an operational outcome for market measures - • We want to ensure that t hese market mechanisms create strong incentives to reduce emissions now and in the future. This means avoiding double counting and affecting current and future ambition. • Compromises that undermine environmental integrity are not acceptable to us. Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2 • We want to c omplet e the second review of the Warsaw International Mechanism for loss and damage. Mobilizing and catalyzing effective action remains essential for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage. • We have already achieved good results in important matters like capacity building and we will continue to work towards a successful outcome on the Gender Action Plan. In the past few years, we have also expanded our family in the UNFCCC by empowering and encouraging Non -state Actors to become part of this process. In response, they are showing us that the global transition and the Paris Agreement goals are within reach. The Involvement of the Non -State A ctors is essential for achieving progress in implementing climate action. The economic actors, consumers and citizens hold the power to change the consumption and productions patterns of our societies. We, Governments and regulators, are holding the pen in designing the enabling environments so that they accelerate action and leap frog progress. Dear Presiden t, Distinguished Heads of State and Government, Ministers, Colleagues, Four years ago, we celebrated the landmark Paris Agreement, a breakthrough in multilateralism and the global fight against climate change. Now the urgency is upon us and 2020 will test our collective ability to deliver. • At the risk of stating the obvious, I will underline one point: the Paris Agreement in itself won’t change the trend. The real challenge is in implementing the vision and the spirit of the Paris Agreement. • Governments all around the world are responsible for putting in place the necessa ry policies and measur es, creating financial mechanisms and incentive structures to accelerate the global transition to a more sustainable, low emissions economy and providing their citizens with a safe future. Nor is this COP, whatever its outcome, the end of the story. Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union 3 By COP26 in Glasgow we will all need to communicate or update our NDCs and submit our Long -Term Strategies, in line with the Paris objectives. This is what we collectively agreed in Paris. Europe is hard at work to do this: • In the EU, ambitious policies a nd measures have enabled us to effectively decouple economic growth from the growth of emissions. • We have put in place legislation to deliver, and even exceed, our current NDC. But we want to go further. • Tomorrow, the European Commission will present the European Green Deal. We want to make the EU climate -neutral by 2050, and do so in a way that also makes our climate strategy Europe’s new growth strateg y. • The vast majority of EU leaders already support this objec tive and we expect to submit our long -term strategy to the UNFCCC in early 2020. • It is clear that this transition will bring significant challenges, but first and foremost it is an opportunity to create a better future. • We know we can make it a success, an d we hope our example will pave the way for others. • We are also stepping up our outreach and cooperation with all partners. • The EU continues to be the world’s biggest climate finance donor, providing over 40% of the world’s public finance – EUR 21.7 billi on in 2018. • We must make sure that the most vulnerable are supported in their efforts – that they are empowered and have the capacity to deal with the changes and find new and sustainable ways forward. • We cannot afford to leave anyone behind. This applies both at the EU level as well as globally! The EU looks forward to a successful outcome at COP 25. That would represent another important stepping stone to our collective achievement of the goals that we have set for ourselves in Paris. Thank you.