COP 26 — Opening Ceremony — 1 November 2021 [Opening ceremony/plenary : 3 min shared with PCOM = 90 seconds. This text is 2 minutes.] Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen, There is no escaping the facts. Climate change threatens our survival. The beating drum of science … the facts … have been loud and clear for some time. But i t has taken too long for our ears to hear … what our eyes have been seeing all around us. The recent IPCC report lays out the stark facts. Our time to act … is short. But it is not too late. We know what we have to do … i t is not a mystery. Cap global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. And w e have one generation to get it done. Europe is leading the way. In 2019, w e committed to becoming the first carbon neutral continent, by 2050. And now … t wo years later … others have gotten on board. But it’s one thing to make a pledge. It’s quite another … to take action. That’ s the hard part. The part that takes … real leadership. It will also take real courage, creativity, and cooperation. 1. Courage … because we must take courageous decisions. Our history is full of bold, visionary, and yes, courageous decisions. Now it is time to take perhaps the greatest decision of them all … to save our planet. 2. It will take creativity … and imagination … to innovate and build the technologies. And scale them up … with public and private investment. Let’s tap into humankind’s infinite spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship … for the good of our planet. 3. And we will need … cooperation. Cooperation and solidarity. To make sure that everyone benefits from this green transformation. We don’t all start from the same point. But together … we must all be working toward the same end … A healthy, sustainable planet … for generations to come. [Now I will pass the floor to the President of the European Commission … President Von der Leyen…] Thank you. Plenary Statement by President von der Leyen COP26, 1 November 2021 Dear President, fellow leaders, I know all of us in this room want to be on the right side of history. This is why I call on all of us to do what is necessary for keeping the limit of 1,5° C warming within reach. This is our opportunity to write history. More than that, it is our duty. Europe will spare no effort to become the first climate neutral continent. But at this COP, we all must speed up our race to net zero. First, we have to give strong commitments to reduce emissions by 2030; Net zero by 2050 is good, but not enough. We need real action during this decade. Second, we need to agree on a robust framework of rules, for example to make global carbon markets a reality. And point number 3: we must mobilize climate finance for supporting vulnerable countries to adapt and leapfrog to clean growth. The EU will fully contribute to achieve our global goals on adaptation. With close to 27 billion dollar in 2020, Team Europe is already the largest provider of climate finance. Almost half of our finance is for adaptation or for both adaptation and mitigation. We have pledged an additional 5 billion dollars up to 2027 from the EU budget. And we will double our funding for biodiversity, especially in vulnerable countries. Fellow leaders, ladies and gentlemen, the eyes of the world are on us. This Glasgow COP is a moment of truth for the global community. We m ust make it a success. We owe this to our children!