Statement by Mr Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister of Agriculture and Environment of Finland at COP22, Marrakech, 16 November 2016 Mr President, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a great pleasure for me to address you at th is COP22 in the beautiful city of Marrakech. Finland fully aligns itself with the statement by the EU and its Member States. Paris became a real turning point in global climate policy. Now the Paris agreement is already in force. This is somethi ng we all should be very proud of. It clearly shows our joint commitment. I am happy to tell you that Finland deposited its ratification instrument this Monday. Mr President, Our work is not done. Now we must fulfill our promises. The value of the Paris agreement will eventually be m easured by action on the ground. For us, the gover nments, this means turning our intention s into real action. We have to deliver the necessary emission reductions. In Finland, we are committed to increase the share of renewables to 50% of energy use; to stop using coal and to halve the use of oil by 2030. Together, w e need to create a strong and transparent mon itoring and reporting framework. We also need a robust global process to take stock whether we are on the right track. These are priorities for Finland and the EU. Both the facilitative dialogue in 2018 and the globa l stocktake in 2023 allow us to assess and revise our emission reduction targets. We must make sure that our joint efforts keep us firmly on the right path. Mr President, Developing countries, especially the po orest and most vulnerable, need support to implement their commi tments. Capacity building is an import ant element of any such support. Mobilizing the needed finance is a priority. I wou ld like to emph asise the role of forests in achieving the Paris Agreement’s long term goal. Sustainable forest management and reforestation are crucial in increasing sinks of CO2. As for agriculture, it is not only a question of adaptation. Agriculture is also part of the mitigation and climate action overall. Finland takes over chair ing of the Arctic Council next spring. The Arctic is warming twice as fast as the global average. The impacts of a changing Arctic are severe for the whole world. Finland stresses climate change and sustainable development in the Arctic Council. Reducing emissions of black carbon will be one of our main goals. Mr President, For the Paris Agreement to truly deliver, everyone needs to act in all countries. It is the private sector that innovates, invests and implements. It is regions, cities and municipalities that are re sponsible fo r many of the measures that must be taken. But it is also individual citizens that can make a difference. Through the Finnish born Citizens Climate Pledge initiative, it is n ow possible for any global citizen to commit to join a global movem ent of action on climate change. To conclude, the Paris Agreement has firmly anchored climate change as a key area of international cooperation. Let us now build on this momentum and make further histo ric steps in its implementation.