1 STATEMENT BY HER EXCELLENCY MOHAMMED BS JALLOW THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA AT THE 28TH CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES OF THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE HEADS OF STATE SUMMIT HELD IN DUBAI THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 30TH NOVEMBER – 3RD DECEMBER, 2023 2 Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of His Excellency Mr Adama Barrow, President of the Republic of The Gambia, I would like to thank the people and government of the United Arab Emirates for the warm welcome and hospitality accorded to me and my delegation. I congratulate His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates and Ruler of Abu Dhabi for the successful organization of the 28th Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Excellencies It is with great humility and honour that I stand before you today, at this crucial climate summit to share with you The Gambia’s experience in combatting climate change and addressing problems cause d by climate -related events. My government is aware of t he challenges posed by climate change ; they are real, and they affect us all. The theme of this event, " climate transition and adaptation," encapsulates our shared journey towards a sustainable future. It acknowledges that we must transition from practices that harm our planet and adapt to the cha llenges we are currently facing. We recognize that transitioning to a low -carbon, sustainable economy is not only an environmental imperative but also an 3 economic opportunity. Therefore, w e are still committed to promoting the use of green and clean energy, sustainable agriculture, and eco -friendly technologies. We have the fervent belief that t his transition will not only reduce our carbon footprint but also create jobs, stimulate innovation, and improve the quality of life of our citizens. Reports published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, demonstrate that Africa is highly impacted by climate change. In The Gambia, a small and vulnerable low -lying nation, we have acutely felt the impact of climate change in recent years. Erratic weather patterns, cyclic floods and droughts, have result ed to food insecurity, population displacement, and increased temperatures, affecting our communities, agricultur al production, and water resources management. The Gambia updated its N ationally Determined Contribution in December 2021 and submitted its Long -Term Climate -Neutral Development Strategy 2050 (LTS), to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in September 2022, in compliance with its obligations under the Paris Agreement. In addition, we are working on local adaptation measures that range from reinforcing flood mitigation infrastructure, to implementing climate -resilient agricultural practices, including the recently launched climate -smart agricultural project s, climate - resilient fisheries and adaptive capacity strengthening of our rural 4 populations, through climate -resilient and diversified livelihoods. These actions are vital for safeguarding our people and ecosystems. However, o ur strides to combatting climate change through adaptation and mitigation means are mainly hindered by lack of financial resources, necessary to invest in clean energy, resilient infrastructure, and adaptive measures. Being one of the c ountries most affected by climate change, our shared goal must be to bridge the gap between aspiration and action, through strong g lobal cooperation. We encourage the international community to honour their commitments to international agreements, particularly the Paris Agreement. Adequate and predictable funding, structured for quick disbursement and not tied up in complex red -tape, is essential to support countries like ours, as we embark on this transformative journey. We call upon the developed countries that have contributed more to the accumulation of greenhouse gas emissions, to deliver on their promise s and increase financial support to vulnerable nations, to enable them undertake the necessary transitions, and build climate -resilient societies that are critical to meeting the SDG targets. 5 Excellencies, Education and awareness creation should be the cornerstones of our approach. We must educate our citizens about climate change, foster a sense of stewardship, and inspire them to participate actively in our efforts to transition and adapt. We must view climate education as an investment in the future, which require s the effort of all. In conclusion, let us remember that climate change does not discriminate based on nationality or wealth. It is incumbent upon us to act together, with determination and urgency. We would once again reaffirm our readiness to play our part in the global effort to combat climate change and create a better world for future generations. Our NDC is ambitious enough to contribute our fair share to achieving the net zero emissions target. Together, we can achieve our climate goals, and through collective action, we can ensure that finance, climate transition, and adaptation are not just themes for discussion but cornerstones of our shared future to have a healthy and wealthy planet. Thank you, and let us work together for a more sustainable and resilient world.