Statement by H.E. Teimuraz MURGULIA, First Deputy Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Protection of GEORGIA at the UN Climate Change Conference ‘COP22’, Marrakesh Your Majesty King Mohammed the sixth, Mr. President, Madame Executive Secretary, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Let me first express gratitude to our hosts, His Majesty and the Kingdom of Morocco for organizing and graciously hosting this important event, and to the Secretariat for their tireless work. Georgia recently held elections, its new cabinet is still being formed and approved. This is the only reason, our highest leadership is not presented today, thus it is my honour to convey to you the we are remaining committed to ambitious climate actions. Georgia welcomes the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, and our own ratification procedures are ongoing - since we gathered in Paris, Georgia has continued to vigorously d evelop and follow our climate change agenda, both on mitigation and adaptation issues. We have adopted an Energy Efficiency Action Plan, and we are Finalizing our National Adaptation Plan and our Low Emission Development Strategy. And we have taken the fir st, and highly successful, steps in establishing an early warning system, laying the strong foundation to extend that system to the entire country. Georgia is also committed to supporting our global emissions goals through actions at other international p latforms. In particular, Georgia is one of several countries that committed to implement the Global Market -Based Measure adopted by ICAO under the Bratislava Declaration. We consider these efforts as our duty. Georgia is not a big emitter, but we are cons cious of our role in the global community. Georgia joins with other developing country Parties who do not see ourselves as passive recipients of aid, but rather seeking ways to contribute to meaningful solutions. I would like to highlight two of those co ntributions here: First, Georgia is committed to being a hub for renewable energy production and export. We are taking tangible steps towards achieving this. In this way, we will contribute not only to Georgia’s further development, but also to the effor ts of other countries to mitigate emissions. Apart from hydropower, our current priority, we are actively exploring the potential of biomass, wind and solar power. Our main aim is to offer our neighbors not just clean, but clean and affordable energy. Here, at the COP 22, we can make it possible, if we agree on the mechanisms to support producers and exporters of clean energy. Second, I’ve heard a lot about the importance of adequate funding for mitigation and adaptation, but quite little on the true drive r of the paradigm shift - education. If we are focused on the critical necessity of achieving our common climate change goals, education is the key enabler. To respond to that need, Georgia is actively developing a Technological Education Hub, focused on t he Green Economy. Through this Hub, we can help future generations continually improve their understanding and use of climate - focused technologies and practices. The benefits of improving climate education occur quickly. Through rapid action, we will begin to see the results of these efforts in only a few years, and the next generation will better understand the complex impacts of climate change and the compelling importance of controlling those impacts. They will have far better tools and the dedication ne cessary to avoid widespread, irreversible damage. As you may remember, back in Paris, Georgia initiated process to achieve international consensus on Education for Sustainable Development and make it an integral part of our educational systems. We are fir mly standing by our commitment and looking forward to achieving that goal. New generations have challenged us to deliver on our commitments from Paris. To meet that challenge, we must move beyond old ideas that divide us. We must be innovative and ambiti ous. We strongly encourage our fellow parties to pursue all avenues to meet the challenge our future generations have put to us. Without addressing Climate Change, it will be impossible to achieve our Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda. Act ually, there will be no Sustainability at all. That’s why Georgia fully supports this process. If we approach this problem with imagination and determination, we are certain we can collectively achieve ambitious outcomes here in Marrakech. We look forward to continuing our work with all parties toward that end. I thank you very much, Mr. President.