Party - Republic of Ghana Statement by Hon Prof. Kwabena Frimpong -Boateng, Minister of Environment, Science, Technology & Innovation of the Republic of Ghana During the High -level segment of the Twenty -Third session of the Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC, the Thirteenth session of the Conference of Parties serving as Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, Bonn, Germany The Chair of the “high level segment meeting of COP 23 Page 1 of 7 Page 2 of 7 Page 3 of 7 Mr President of the “COP 23” Excellences Representatives of “Parties to the UNFCCC, Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement” Distinguished Delegates Ladies and Gentlemen On behalf of the Government and the People of Ghana, I am pleased to address the high-level segment of the twenty -third Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. Mr. President, we wish to congratulate the Republic of Fiji for becoming the first Small Island State presiding over a COP. Ghana also wishes to thank the government and people of Germany for supporting Fiji to host the COP i n this magnificent facility here in Bonn, the home of Global Climate affairs. Mr. President, t his COP is an important milestone and another golden opportunity for us to secure the future we want for the generations yet to come. Ghana reiterates its position that the UNFCCC process of negotiations is capable of that which truly respects the right of Page 4 of 7 nations to pursue sustainable development, while providing equal opportunity for all to contribute towards achieving the global temperature go al. In this regard, Ghana associates herself with the common position of the African Group and G77 + China and calls for an all - inclusive negotiation of the Paris Agreement that will enhance the implementation of the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol. Mr. President, we call for equal treatments of the real issues that threaten the foundation of our economies and the social wellbeing of our people, while protecting the earth. In this view therefore, Ghana would like to see substantive progress in the n egotiations on issues such as - finance, adaptation, loss and damage, mitigati on and above all gender. These are important to ensure that we implement our Nationally Determined Contributions. We call on developed country parties to ensure sustainable and predictable flows of finance. Ghana is of the view that Middle Income Countries that pursue their socio -economic development with low carbon footprints should not be discriminated against through denial of access to grants. We further wish to emphasize the need to address the pre -2020 emission gap and call on developed countries to find opportunities to close this gap. Page 5 of 7 Ghana like many developing nations, is already taking steps to address the negative impacts of climate change. We have commenced pre-2020 activi ties and are mainstreaming our Nationally Determined C ontributions in sector and local level plans and programmes. Mr. President, as part of effort to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+), over the past months the Government of Ghana has taken bold steps in protecting the environment of its people, particularly our water bodies, which have been polluted through illegal mining. Our young farmers abandon farming because of drought and loss of farmlands and engage in illegal mining. In the coming years we seek to continue promoting sustainable development for sound Environmental Governance and also intensify awareness creation, collaborations and partnerships with relevant stakeholders. These are some of the policies and measures we are undertaking at the national level to build resilience and equitable low carbon economy. We hope with additional support will enhance our capacity to deliver on this laudable endeavour. Mr. President, lad ies and gentlemen, let me conclude by urging us all to be mindful of the key elements in our deliberations here on this multilateral platform. Page 6 of 7 We emphasi ze the need for strong partnership and call for s trong leadership and d rive to achieve a better clima te future to facilitate the sustainable development we all cherish. Together, w e can explore common grounds and above all “seek to build mutual trust”. I thank you for your attention