Party - Republic of Ghana STATEMENT BY PROF. KWABENA FRIMPONG -BOATENG, MINISTER FOR ENVIRONMENT, SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION During High -level segment for C OP 25, DECEMBER 2019 MADRID,SPAIN Page 1 of 4 Madam President of CO P 25 Excellences Distinguished Delegates Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of the Government and the People of Gh ana, I am pleased to address this high level segment under the Presidency of Chile and to re -affirm Ghana’s commitment as a member of the global community to the reduction of global temperature to save this planet. Ghana congratulate s the government of the Royal Kingdom of Spain for successfully putting in place this magnificent facility for this conference. Your Excellency, this meeting provides another opportunity for us to secure a liveable planet for the present and future genera tions. This is a moral and privileged duty we owe to the future generation s and we cannot afford to fail by not acting decisively now. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we achieved an “ambitious multilateral pact” in Paris that truly respect ed the right of nations to pursue sustainable development, and provide equal opportunity for all, and at the same time, keep us on track to achieve the 2 degree temperature goal. Madam President, we encourage Parties to effectively implement the Katowice climate package with the aim of enhancing implementation without delay. We urge parties to complete guidance on Article 6 on Markets and non -market mechanisms to enable the rule book to be complete d in order to advance the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The time for meaningful climate actions is here and now. There are millions of ordinary people around the world today who are faced with the threats of climate change on daily basis. Our people lo ok up to us this day here in Madrid to make a difference in their plight. Page 2 of 4 Madam President, at COP 21 in Paris, the African Min isters submitted a proposal to the Conference for Africa to be considered as a continent with special needs and circumstances. We wish to re -affirm this position and it is our hope that a n agreement can be reached under your Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, Ghana has been implementing a number of initiativ es in line with its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). Our NDCs have been incorporated into National Co-ordinated Programme for Economic and Social Development Policies (2017 -2024), to facilitate their full implementation. Additionally, the President of Ghana, Nana Addo Dankwa Akuf o-Addo, has established an Advisory Group of prominent, private sector Chief Executives, who are setting up a $100 million SDGs Delivery Fund and a $200 million Green Fund, to complement government’s efforts at tackling climate change, and funding the implementation of the SDGs. Ghana is committed to reducing its carbon footprints, and has taken the decision to increase the renewable energy component of our energy mix from 1% to 10%, by the end of 2020. This mon th Ghana completed retro -fitting a 450MW power plant so it can use Natural Gas instead of Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO). We are also considering adding nuclear energy to our energy mix. A policy on electric mobility, which provides an incentive package for elec tric vehicles and high occupancy buses utilizing Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and hydrogen fuel cells, has been proposed in the 2019 budget, all in our bid to reduce our carbon footprint. Nature -based solutions are also at the heart of Ghana’s climate a ction. We are implementing a road map to stop illegal mining and thereby restoring polluted water bodies, degraded farm lands and forests. Some sixty thousand ( 60,000) young people have been employed to plant trees on degraded land. So far 24 million tress have been planted. Major policy interventions such as the programme for “Planting for Food and Jobs”, “One District, One Factory”, “One Village, One Dam”, have been implemented not only to boost agricultural production, industrialisation and rural development, but also to build our resilience to the impacts of climate change. Ghana support s other Parties in the call for enhance d actions to protect the ocean and water resources as reported in the Speci al IPPC report on oceans. Page 3 of 4 Additiona lly, Ghana is pleased with the progress made with the implementation of the Lima Work Programme (LWP) and its Gender Action Plan (GAP) as well as its subsequent review in COP 25. Our commitment to action o n the implementation of our NDC s will not be complete without forging partnerships. The kind of partnerships we seek are in areas of investments and technical cooperation in resilient landscape, scaling up of renewable energy and fuel diversification for e lectricity supply. I thank you for your attention.