Party - Republic of Ghana Statement by Deputy Minister of Environment, Science, Technology And Innovation, of Republic of Ghana During the High -level segment of the 24st session of the Conference of Parties to the UNFCCC and the Conference of Parties serving as Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol AND CMA 2 KATOWICE,POLAND 2018 The Co -chairs of the “high level segment meeting of COP 24 Page 1 of 7 Mr President of the COP 24 ” Excellenc ies, Representatives of “Parties to the UNFCCC and Paris Agreement ” Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen On behalf of the Government and the People of Ghana, I am pleased to address the high level segment of the 24th session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC and the Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement Mr. President, Ghana wishes to thank the government and people of Poland for hosting the COP in this magnificent multipurpose facility. Mr. Pre sident, thi s COP is an important milestone and another golden opportunity for us to secure liveable globe for our youth and generations to come. This duty is not only a moral one, but also a privilege d duty we owe to the future generation and cannot afford to fail by not acting decisively today, here and now. Ladies and gentlemen, Ghana reiterates its position that the UNFCCC process is capable of delivering and implementing an “ambitious, balanced, multilateral Paris Agreement ” here in Poland that truly respects the right of nations to pursue sustainable development, a pact that is fair, Page 2 of 7 ambitious, balanced and above all, provide equal opportunity for all and at the same time, keep us track to achieve the 2 degree temperature goal. In this respect, Ghana does not only stand with the common positions of the African Group and G -77+China, but also associate herself with the call for an all -inclusive process which provides equal space for the building blocks of the Bali Action Plan. Mr. President, we c all for equal treatments to the real issues that threaten the foundation of our economies and the social wellbeing of our people. Issues like – access to finance, adaptation, loss and damage, mitigation, gender and youth among others - are at the very core of what we call for in this COP. Ghana like many developing nations, is already taking steps to address the negative impacts of climate change. In view of the indispensable risk s climate change poses to realisation of long-term development objectives, our country has decided to tackle it head -on by developing an ambitious multi -sectoral plan that will allow us achieve our national goals towards contributing to the Paris Agreement Mr. President, Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to share some major highli ghts of our efforts with you: Page 3 of 7 • Ghana has responded to the UN declaration for “Sustainable Energy for All by 2030” and currently implementing a number of actions in the Energy sector including, Household Solar rooftop subsidy Programme for off grid areas, distribution of solar lanterns to rural communities and the distribution of LPG for domestic cooking to reduce the use of biomass as fuel wood. • We are also embarking on a Susta inable Transportation Programme with the introduction of CNG and Electric Buses for mass public transportation • Recently over 20,000 young people have been recruited in our ambitious Forest Plantation Programme across the country. • In addition we have streamlined small scale mining activities to avoid degradation and water pollution and are in the process of cleaning up the mess created in the past. This will go a long way to reduce emissions from resulting from land degradation and the use of hazardous chemicals. • A practical oriented Plastic Waste Policy has been developed to clean the environment of the plastic menace and we have started the implementation of our Electronic and Hazardous Waste Law. Page 4 of 7 • As a continued effort to meet its obligation under the convention, Ghana has completed the preparation and submission of its 4th National Communication, National Greenhouse Inventory Report and 2nd Biennial Update Report to the UNFCCC. • We have started integrating Short Climate Pollutants into our National inventory and reporting systems as this can contribute to the 1.5 degrees goal in the near term and sustainable Development. • We have established the Ghana Ambitious Climate Reporting System that will track both support and action form both domestic and external sources as part of efforts to comply with Article 13 of the Paris Agreement. Mr. President these are some of the policies and measures we are under taking at the national level to buil d resilience and equitable low carbon economy. We hope with additional support we can do more. Mr. President, in accordance with decisions 1/CP.19 and 1/CP.20, Ghana communicate d its intended nationall y determined contribution (I NDC) and associated explanatory note to facilitate the clarity, transparency, and understanding of our contribution to the UNFCCC in September 2015. Page 5 of 7 In preparing and submitting its I NDC, Ghana was mindful of its international obligations as a Party to the UNFCCC and at the sam e time mindful of ensuring the importa nce of its national development agenda and poverty eradication as a major objective. The value of integrating adaptation, mitigation and other climate related policies with broader de velopment policies and planning wer e also considered. Ghana sees finance as an essential part of the implementation of the NDCs. The scope of finance from developed countries must address mitigation, adaptation, technology transfer and developmen t, capacity building etc in developing countries and should not solely be mitigation focused. Ghana holds the view that discussions for the implementation of the NDCs and the Paris Agreement should equally cover mitigation, adaptation, finance technology, capacity building transparency and agrees with the comm on position of Africa that the discussions on the NDCs should: • Conform fully with the Convention; • Respect the differentiation between developed and developing countries; Page 6 of 7 • Build on established Convention obligations, particularly relating to means of implementation; and enable developing countries, particularly, Africa countries, to fully participate in the global effort to achieve the Convention’s objective, with regards bo th mitigation and adaptation in line with the Convention’s provisions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by urging us all to be mindful of the key elements in our deliberations here on this multilateral platform. We need: • A Rule book that is forward -looking and result - oriented. • Strong l eadership and d rive to achieve the Paris Agreement. And in doing so, together we can explore common grounds and above all “seek to build mutual trust” as equal partners with unequal capabilities. I wish you all fruitful discussions God bless us all. Thank you