Excellencies, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We meet during an acute energy crisis-sparked by Russia's unprovoked war on Ukraine. I want to speak to you as a “radical realist." Radical because I really believe in the energy transition. It is imperative. Unavoidable. The energy transition is not just about mitigating risk. It is an opportunity. And it is a strategic necessity. Low-carbon energy means energy security-this much is clear. But the energy transition will also allow us to reconceptualize Greece's economic model. For decades, we have been a net energy importer. Our trade balances and our competitiveness suffered. This is changing. Our future competitiveness will be grounded on abundant wind and solar resources. Greece is already a leader in renewable energy. Almost half of our electricity today comes wind, solar, and water. We rank in the top ten countries in the world in terms of the penetration of wind and solar. Just a month ago, we reached a major milestone when, for five hours, solar and wind met 100 percent of our electricity needs. Meanwhile, our coal consumption has fallen by 80 percent in 20 years. The energy we consume today emits 30 percent less CO2 than it did in 2005. And we are just getting started. We want to double our renewable capacity by the end of the decade. We want to be a net electricity exporter. We want to help carry energy and hydrogen from North Africa and the Middle East to Europe. We will be at the centre of a new corridor that will redraw the map of energy in Europe. But we must also manage today's crisis. Without energy security there is no energy transition. We will briefly increase our lignite production. We are importing more LNG. We are investing in our gas infrastructure-to enhance our energy security and that of our neighbours. I see no tension between safeguarding the present and investing in the future. Our people will not support us otherwise. We need radicalism as well as realism. It is the only way forward-this is my message to you today. Thank you very much.