1 COP26, GLASGOW CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE National Statement Sen. the Hon. Simon Stiell Minister for Climate Resilience and the Environment Ministry of Tourism, Civil Aviation, Climate Resilience and the Environment Government of Grenada for Resumed High -level Segment 10 November 2021 ; 10.00 – 13.00 Location: Plenary Cairn Go rm, Zone E Mr. Chairman: COP 26 is the opportunity we must deliver on to keep 1.5 alive ! It is the opportunity to take the necessary actions that will ensure the survival of small island developing states, and other vulnerable countries already suffering from the devastating impacts of climate change. It is the opportunity to provide hope to our young men and women, and to the generations to come. • To safeguard their futures…...their homes, …...their communities…..and their livelihoods. 2 Small island states have sounded the alarm for decades on the need to address climate change. We have been consistent for over a decade on the need to limit warming to below 1.5 degrees and are pleased to see that at last, the global community now united behind this goal. We have heard the pledges and the promises. We now need to have these backed by action. Action on ada ptation and resilience building, with the scaling up of adaptation finance to at least double current levels. And dedicated financing for loss and damage. We need to mobilize and deploy the promised $100bn and the trillions needed to support developing co untries. Glasgow is an opportunity for our global community to respond with unity and solidarity, and we call on all parties to step up to the plate. We acknowledge that the transformation that is required will have its challenges and call for a just tra nsition that leaves no one behind. We have 3 days left to complete our work here and there is still a lot of heavy lifting to be done. But let’s be absolutely clear - we cannot leave Glasgow without having done enough to keep the 1.5 goal within reach, and satisfactory outcomes on adaption and finance. And make no mistake. The world is going to judge the outcomes of COP26 like never before. 3 We must seize this opportunity to show that we have the courage to take the decisive, ambitious and urgent actions that we all know are so desperately needed……...I thank you.