Statement by His Excellency, General Umaro Sissoko Embaló, President of the Republic of Guinea -Bissau, at COP27 Sharm el Sheikh, November 6 -18, 2022 Honorable Prime Minister of Egypt, Heads of State and Government, Mr. President of COP27, Honorable Simon Stiell, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Honorable Mayor of the City of Sharm El -Sheikh, Ladies and gentlemen, Guinea -Bissau, classified under the group of Less Develope d Countries and Small Island Developing States, does not contribute significantly to global emissions of Greenhouse Gases but our engagement with the international community in the fight against global warming was expressed at COP26, in Glasgow, in our pre sentation of our updated Nationally Determined Contribution in 2021. Guinea -Bissau committed to implementing mitigation actions corresponding to a deviation equivalent to -30%, or more, in relation to the trend scenario, by 2030, and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, profound changes must be rapidly set on course in order to close the gap between the goals defined under the Paris Agreement and current trends in the evoluti on of greenhouse gas emissions. Multiple COVID -19 crises and the war in Ukraine must not render the climate financing agenda unfeasible. We must come to an agreement on the implementation architecture for long -term climate financing. Ladies and gentlemen, With the new global challenges, we must increase our ambitions related to mitigation of Greenhouse Gases and promote the other two Pillars, namely Financing and Adaptation, in order to achieve the ambitious goals of the Paris Agreement on the new climate regime and the Agenda 2030 of the United Nations. Africa needs additional support for their initiatives, namely the Africa Renewable Energy Initiative and the Africa Adaptation Initiative, the goal of which is to help to achieve their deve lopment aspirations aligned with three main goals: ● 100% access to sufficient, modern, and renewable energy for all citizens in Less Developed Countries by 2030; ● 100% electricity from renewable energy sources in all Less Developed Countries by 2050 meeting all the needs of their citizens, social services, and industries; and ● 100% use of energy efficiency potential along the value chain through the full implementation of best practices by 2040. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize that our country, Guinea -Bissau, is under high threat from Sea Level Elevation and Coastal Erosion, among other risks related to climate change, and has several extreme vulnerabilities for being an African country, a Less Advanced Country, and a Small Island De veloping Nation, while our contribution to global emissions of Greenhouse Gases is insignificant, as reflected in our updated Nationally Determined Contribution. We have a clear commitment to a quantifiable emission reduction goal that covers the main sect ors, namely Agriculture, Forests, Land Use (AFOLU), Energy and Waste. We must leave Sharm El -Sheikh solidary and committed to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on the new climate regime, maintain a continuous financial engagement, particularly on t he part of the largest emitting countries, so each can do their part to ensure a healthier planet for future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I reaffirm Guinea -Bissau’s commitment to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and to the implementation of the goals established under the Paris Agreement on the new climate regime, as an essential step in the fight against climate change, to progressively increase our ambitions and actions at a national, subnational, and collective level, in future Nationally Determined Contributions. Thank you very much.