Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Dear Colleagues, My country, Hungary is a small land -locked country in the heart of Europe. We are contributing less than 0.01% to global emissions. However, we can feel the adverse effects of climate change on our skins : droughts, floods and extreme weather events hit us more and more frequently, AND, our temperature rise is even higher than the global average. Nevertheless, inst ead of despair, t he Hungarian Government has chosen the “can do” approach in all fields of climate action: In the field of mitigation : we have set strong, strategic and legally binding targets: achieving climate neutrality by 2050 both on EU and national level, and a 55% emission reduction by 2030, on EU level, together with other EU member states. In the field of adaptation : the majority of our climate -related challenges in Hungary are water -challenges, therefore, we put a special emphasis on the “Water and Climate” nexus. I am happy to say here, as well, that we have joined several water -related initiatives of the Egyptian COP27 Presidency. Apart from mitigation and adaptation, we find important to make finance flows consistent with Paris Agreement goals. This is not just about finance: it is a matter of investment choice s. And Hungary has chosen the green pathway, by investing in renewables, energy efficiency, green mobility, just transition and climate financing in the Western Balkan countries. However, national action s solely are just not enough. We have to deal with Article 2.1.c) of the Paris Agreement in their whole complexity, internationally, here within the UNFCCC process. In line with the previous request of the European Union and its Member States, we kindly ask future COP Presi dencies to consider the inclusion of this topic in their agenda. Distinguished Delegates, we may be just a small country in the heart of Europe, but you can be sure that our hearts are green. Even our smallest children’s. I am holding in my hand some of those 2,500 postcards that Hungarian schoolchildren have drawn for us. For us, climate negotiators, ahead of COP27, describing the green, sustainable planet that they wish to live at. Dear Young Colleagues, throughout my wh ole country, you see, I’ve brought your message to the United Nations. And I promise you that I won’t leave Sharm El -Sheikh without fighting for your dream. Excellencies, I suggest you to do the same. Let’s c hoose, my friends, the path of sustainability together. Thank you for your attention !