COP 28 NATIONAL STATEMENT Excellencies, Friends, Ladies and Gentlemen, • At the outset, let me express my heartfelt gratitude to the Government of United Arab Emirates for hosting COP 28, and for their warm hospitality. • India also congratulates COP28 Presidency for steering this COP as the “COP for Action”, which became eviden t on the very first day with the successful operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund. Excellencies, • India has been at the forefront of supporting action -oriented steps at the global level in response to climate change. We have always held the view that people and planet are inseparable and human well -being and Nature are intrinsically linked. • The call given to the global community by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi to join Mission LiFE – Lifestyle for Environment bears testimony to India’s action -oriented approach. Furthering the ideals of Mission LiFE, India launched the Green Credit Initiative here at COP 28 on 1st December, to create a participatory global platform for exchange of innovative environmental programs and instrume nts. • Earlier this year, we saw the historic adoption of the Green Development Pact by the G20 nations as part of the New Delhi Declaration. Friends, • India has now finalized its Third National Communication based on GHG inventory of 2019 along with Initial Adaptation Communication. It underscores our consistent contribution towards climate action while also prioritizing the development and well -being of our peop le. • In our endeavour to decouple economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions, India has successfully reduced the emission intensity vis - à-vis its GDP by 33% between 2005 and 2019, thus achieving the initial NDC target for 2030, 11 years ahead of the sche duled time. • India has also achieved 40% of electric installed capacity through non fossil fuel sources, nine years ahead of the target for 2030. Between 2017 and 2023, India has added around 100 GW of installed electric capacity, of which around 80% is att ributed to non -fossil fuel-based resources. • We have therefore revised our NDCs upwards indicating our deep commitment towards enhanced climate action. Excellencies, • In addition to its domestic initiatives, India’s contribution to climate action has been significant through its international efforts such as International Solar Alliance (ISA), Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), creation of LeadIT, Infrastructure for Resilient Island States (IRIS) and the Big Cat Alliance. • The Global Biofuel Alliance, launched when the G20 leaders met in New Delhi earlier this year, seeks to serve as a catalytic platform fostering global collaboration for advancement and widespread adoption of biofuels. Friends, • As we gather here in Dubai for COP28, India looks forward to the Global Stock -take’s outcomes and hope that they will provide meaningful and relevant inputs for deciding on enhanced climate action. • The resource mobilization under New Collective Quantified Goal must be guided by the needs and requirements of the developing countries. • India firmly believes that equity and climate justice must be the basis of global climate action. This can be ensu red on ly when the developed countries take the lead in ambitious climate action. Excellencies, • It is of paramount importance to repose our trust and confidence in the principles and processes of the convention and its Paris Agreement. • Let us all reaffirm our commitment to work together for the common objective for greener, cleaner and healthier planet as we have one Earth, we are One family and share One future. I thank you all. (563 words)