STATEMENT BY INDONESIA AT HIGH-LEVEL SEGMENT OF COP2 5, CMP 15, CMA 2 Madrid, 11 December 2019 Madam President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, I congratulate the Chilean Presidency in guiding our work and by thanking the Government of Spain for their solidarity and support in making this meeting success. I also convey our appreciation to the UNFCCC Secretariat for the excellent arrangement of this Conference. Indonesia is fully committed to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement by implementing actions to meet the target of reducing GHG emission unconditionally by 29% and conditional ly up to 41% compare d to 2030 business as usual -scenario. On Adaptation, we have policy to enhance climate resilience on the economy, social and livelihood a s well as ecosystem and landscape. Various policy reforms and actions have been implementing including: • Making permanent a temporary moratorium on the conversion of primary natural forests and peat lands • conserving the remaining forest areas through REDD+ and sustainable forest management • transitioning to cleaner and renewable energ y • implement ing climate -related fiscal policies and innovative financing instruments, • setting up a dedicated environmental financing agency to manage climate -related funds Currently, w e are updating our NDC, as a part of our long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategy called the “Indonesia 2050 Visions on Climate Change”. Madam President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Indonesia welcomes the two recent IPCC Special Report s on Land and on Ocean. In addition to managing terrestria l ecosystem and climate change, we recognize the important linkages between the ocean and the climate system, including the role of the ocean in climate mitigation and adaptation. Hence, there is a need to promote sustainable management, conservation and restoration of coastal and marine ecosystems. Indonesia’s efforts in this regard include, research in blue carbon, ecosystem -based adaptation, and development of Marine Protected Areas. With regard to the concern of GHG emission gap and the need of “Raising NDC ambition s”, we urge developed country Parties to continue to fulfil their commitments to provide means of implementation in accordance to Art. 3 and Art. 4 of the Convention and Art.3 of the Paris Agreement. In closing, we are concern on unfinished work on the Scope of Next Periodic Review, Article 6, Finance, Transparency Framework and Loss and Damage. We believe that under your able leadership, Madam President, Parties could finalise and come up with a balanced outcome -- underpinned by a transparent, inclusi ve, and country driven processes – and honouring the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and respective capabilities. Thank you.