Statement by: H.E. Dr. Kaveh Madani Deputy Head of the Department of Environment on Research and Education Islamic Republic of Iran COP23/CMP13/CME1.2, UNFCCC Country Statement Delivered in the High -Level Segment 16 November 2017 Bonn -Germany In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful Mr. President, Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Colleagues, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me at the outset to express my profound gratitude to both the peoples and Governments of Fiji and Germany for jointly hosting this COP here in Bonn and the hospitality extended to my delegation. We are all pleased to see that there is, finally, a global consensus about the need to act strongly to mitiga te climate change and to adapt to its impacts. Reaching this consensus was not a trivial task. While we deserve celebrating this success, we should not forget that the next step is even more challenging. We often get too busy negotiating over the targets t hat we forget that we also need means and realistic pathways to the end goal. The major unresolved issues now are designing effective policies to change the current development model, to share the burden as to who pays for the economic costs of policy ch ange, to balance environmental and development policies, to reflect fairness in obligations and in payments for costs of change, and to provide developing countries with the means of implementation, particularly finance and technology transfer. We must pu t more efforts into identifying feasible paths and processes that can help us address climate change in a fair and cooperative manner based on two fundamental principles. First, because of their historical responsibility for global warming, the developed c ountries must take the lead in mitigation and in providing finance and tec hnology to developing countries without shifting the burden onto these countries. Second, benefiting from the finance and technology provided by the developed counterparts, the deve loping countries should take responsible climate actions, but not at the expense of their economic and social development. These key principles are in the provisions of the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol and the Islamic Republic of Iran has defended them strongly throughout the negotiations that led to the Paris Agreement. We strongly believe that unless these principles are fully respected, we just add more targets to our already ambitious agendas of sustainable development, eradica tion of poverty, proliferation of health and education, etc. without developing the mechanisms that enable us to solve our shared problems through fair cooperation. Mr. President, Movement to a low -carbon economy is one of the environmental mandates of our Supreme Leader. In this movement, as an intermediary step, we have already replaced liquid fuels with natural gas and we plan to further increase the share of this resource as well as nu clear and renewa ble energies in our energy mix, in line with our economic diversification goals. Iran’s energy transition provides a very competitive market for those interested in increasing energy e fficiency and renewable energy development. Iran’s IND C is very candid and offers attractive financial incentives for foreign investors to join in partnership. Excellencies, Four decades of international and extraterritorial sanctions have had a multiplier effect on the adverse impact s of climate change on Iran, resulting in environmental degradation. The imposition of unilateral coercive economic measures contrary to the international law by s ome developed cou ntries as well as the politic ization of GEF and GCF decrease the countries’ ability to cope with the adverse impacts of climate change and violate the rights of many people. In transforming Iran’s INDC into her first NDC, particularly building on the nuclear deal (JCPOA) and elevated engagement of European and Asian partners, Iran’s future plan shall stand ambitious in harmony with th e global move and heavily rely on the full implementation of the JCPOA and unhindered financial and technological transactions and transfers. The Islamic Republic of Iran honors its commitments and promises that are fair, balanced and con structive, and help us keep the delicate balance of national development and greenhouse gas emissions reduction. Mr. President, I like to draw your attention to a speci fic sector that has been largely overlooked in the climate change negotiations as well as the Paris agreement. Water scarcity is a serious threat to food security with significant socio -economic implications that will be exacerbated by climate change. This, combined with water and w eather-related extreme events such as drough ts, floods, hurricanes, and sand and dust storm s have put t he health of livelihoo d of a large portion of the world ’s population at great risk. Believing in the need for adopting a nexus approach in developing sustainab le solutions to climate change, we propose that the issue of water to be included in the agenda of COP 24. Ladies and Gentlemen, Progress in COP negotiations gives us hope. But we all need to work together to preserve our shared planet. Indeed, we have an obligation to contribute our fair share to this moral imperative.