1 Minister Zeev Elkin Climate Change Convention Marrake sh COP 22 President, His Excellency Mr Salaheddine Mezouar, Executive Director of the UNFCCC, Ms Patricia Espinosa, Let me open by expressing our appreciation to King Mohammed the VI and the Moroccan people for the warm reception my delegation and I have received. Our hosts have excelled themselves in providing an atmosphere which supported the positive outcome here in Marrakech. Ladies and Gentlemen, Just over a month ago, we reached a historic milestone – the Paris Agreement was ratified by enough countries to become operational. I am proud to report that Israel is now one of those countries. We completed our ratification process two days ago. The time has come to move from words to actions. The focus of this meeting in Marrakesh is implementation and Israel is also committed. Today, we all recommit to both national action and global cooperation. Israel is no exception. 2 Emissions reduction is at the core of the Paris Agreement. Israel established a national mitigation target of 7.7 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) per capita in 2030 - a 26% reduction below the 2005 per capita level. We the n determined s ector - specific targets to help us reach the target: 17% reduction in electricity consumption, 20% reduction in private car mileage and 17% electricity generation from renewable energy. To reach Israel’s mitigation target for 2030, we are taking significant and innovative measures. Since energy production is responsible for 53% of total emissions anticipated in 2030, coal use reduction is a top priority. As a first step, the government decided to reduce its installed coal capacity by nearl y 30% as we move from coal to natural gas. Additional reduction s will come from the introduction of renewable energy. We will be offering economic incentives side by side with the removal of regulatory and bureaucratic barriers in order to promote the cons truction of new renewable energy facilities. Energy efficiency has been identified as a major lever for greenhouse gas emissions reduction. Therefore, w e are adopting stringent standards for energy -efficient appliances and for green building and promoting an energy rating for commercial, public and residential 3 buildings. At the same time, we are focusing on economic mechanisms to reduce electricity consumption and on regulations and standards to increase green building in Israel. In the transportation sector, the second largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions in Israel, we are promoting public transport and increasing fuel cons umption efficiency by incentivizing energy -efficient, alternative propulsion vehicles. The list of our technological developments in the field of climate change is long. It include s a sophisticated software -based chiller optimizer that keeps large commercial and industrial buildings cool using 25% -35% less electricity. Another development is a household system for turning organic waste into clean biogas for cooking, heating and lighting. And to reduce private car use, ride -sharing applications have been developed that use algorith ms to match multiple passengers headed in the same direction with a single vehi cle that best matches their route. We invite countries worldwide to come to Israel, to learn about our efforts and to share in our cutting -edge technologies for climate change mitigation and adaptation. Ladies and Gentlemen, 4 Side by side with our commitment to mitigation, we recognize our responsibility to contribute to the second major component of the Paris Agreement – supporting developing countries that are struggling with the adverse effects of climate change. For decades, Israel has struggled to meet the challenges created by our harsh climatic and geographic conditions. Yet, s carcity of water and energy sources has incentivized us to overcome these obstacles by means of innovative technologies. We strongly bel ieve that many of the se technologies can also aid nations struggling with climate change. This is our contribution to the global community. As you well know, Israel is a world leader in the field of water efficiency and desert agriculture. This is thanks to innovative technologies like drip irrigation, a more than 85% wastewater recycling rate, and techniques to increase crop yields. Similarly, Israel’s alternative energy companies have developed a host of new technologies in such fields as solar and photo voltaic energy, energy management and smart grid solutions. Israel is a hub for technology and innovation. We placed first in the Global Cleantech Innovation Index for 2014, and among the top five countries in the Bloomberg Innovation Index in 2015. 5 I stan d here to offer our knowledge and expertise to our friends and partners world wide, especially in the developing world. We are committed to sharing our innovations and technology for the betterment of the global community. In this spirit, a delegation headed by our Prime Minister recently visited Africa to renew and promote relationships with several African countries. Contributing to countries battling the effects of climate change is a central pillar of the Paris Agreement. We in Israel are committed to that contribution. We are also committed to strengthening regional cooperation. The countries of the Mediterranean, from Israel to Morocco, share many climate challenges. Yet, we also share the determination to meet th ese challenges with innovation. For example, Morocco is building one of the largest solar farms in the world while Israel is establishing energy -efficient desalination plants on a mass scale. Talking about regional cooperation, it is sad that the Palestinians h ave chosen to take advantage of this platform not as a forum for unify ing professional discussion but rather for making unrestrained and complete ly un true claims, which we completely reject. But I cannot allow the claims made to go unanswered. I could hav e brought many examples but I will only refer 6 to one from the past few days. A cement factory has been set up in a Nature Reserve which endangers the surrounding population and the Reserve itself. The local population has turned to Israel for assistance as the cement factory is being promoted by the Palestinian Authority through two of Mahmoud Abbas's sons who are not willing to take into account the environmental effects nor the possible damage to the population. I could go on but do not want to be dragged into this discussion further. We will not be pulled into politicization of this important forum. There are many other platforms for that political debate. Let us ensure that the environmental issue is what unifies us because without this cooperation we will not be successful in dealing with the mission we all face. I envision the nations of our region becoming global leaders in providing solutions to the climate challenges that we, in Israel, have faced for generations – the same challenges now being experienced by ever larger expanses of the global community. In a region riddled with strife and conflict, I believe climate change is an issue that can unite us. This is our mi ssion - our contribution - to the global effort to create effective climate action. Thank you