Yuval Steinitz, Minister of Energy of Israel Statement Delivered at UNFCCC COP 25 Chilean Presidency in Madrid 9.12.2019 Madame President Executive Director of the UNFCCC Honorable Ministers and distinguished delegates I am honored and privileged to speak here today on behalf of the government of Israel. I wish to congratulate the Chilean presidency and our Spanish hosts for this remarkable conference. As the Israeli minister of energy I came here with a crystal -clear message : Israel remain s fully committed to the implementation of the Paris Agreement. We are fully aware of the significant responsibility we share in the global efforts to promote a low carbon economy. Today, I wish to share with you our vision and actions, which will enable us to achieve a clean and reliable low carbon energy. Over the last five years I have initiated several strategic decision s to phase out our use of coal in our power plants. Recently I have decided to increase our level of ambition, and to take bigger and bolder steps : - 2 - The first is to terminate the use of coal in our power plant s as early as 2025. This will make Israel the world leader in the reduction of coal use between 2012 -2025. The second decision is to draw up a plan that will allow us to dramatically increase our commitment to renewable energy and to raise our target from 17% to 25% - 30% by 2030. By 2025 we will be using only NG and renewables in our electricity generation. The out come of these steps, between 2014 until today we have managed to reduce 57% of SO2 pollutants and 40% of NOX pollutants from our electricity generation, because we all deserve to breathe clean air. By 2025 we will have reduced CO2 emissions from electricity generation by more than 3 0% and about 50% per capita. However, t hese will not be our only actions. In Israel we put our faith in innovation and technology and we will take far reaching steps to deepen our targets in renewable energy and energy efficiency by 2050. It is quit e challenging, due to the fact that Israel 's renewable energy is based mainly on solar energy, and in light of Israel 's national characteristics such as high population density and land scarcity. But we believe in looking forward and making the future a reality today. Another effort will be to set a goal of 100% electrification of new cars and CNG based heavy transport by 2030. Israel will be launching an innovative Cities' Energy Platform that will allow cities to become energy efficient with in their municipal areas, and - 3 - to reach ambitious CO2 mitigation targets by promoting efficiency and renewable, electric vehicle infrastructure, storage and smart grids. Ladies and Gentlemen Together with our commitment to mitigation, we have a responsibility to contribute to the second major component of the Paris Agreement – suppo rting developing countries in their fight with the adverse effects of climate change. Israel has always had to cope with the challenges created by our geographic and climatic conditions. Challenges like scarcity of water and poor energy sources has motivated us to overcome any obstacle by means of innovation and technology. We strongly believe that our accumulated experience and knowledge can also assist other nations that are struggling with climate change. As you well know, Israel is a world leader in the field of water efficiency and desert agriculture. This is thanks to development of innovativ e technologies like drip irrigation – and to recycling of more than 85% wastewater. Similarly, Israel’s alternative energy companies have developed a host of new technologies in such fields as solar and photovoltaic energy, energy management and smart grid solutions. Israel became an important hub for technology and innovation and will gladly share its knowledge and experience with the rest of the world. Thank yo u