Speech of Mr Yisrael Dancziger, Director General of the Ministry of Environmental Protection Israel Good afternoon great seeing you all here today. Mr President I would like to begin with thanking the Polish G overnment for its hospitality hosting all of us here in this important summit. I am emotionally moved to stand here today as the representative of the State of Israel. It has been almost 80 years since most of m y extended family was wiped out by the Nazis during the Holoca ust. The fact that I am here, representing Israel and its contribution to the global effort tackling the challenges brought by climate change, could not have been imagined b y my family, who suffered greatly seven decades ago. It is beyond words to describe how prou d and happy they would be. This is a story of hope and belief in mankind. Ladies and Gentlemen, The effects of climate change are here and clearly felt and seen also in Israel. We are completely committed to the efforts of fighting climate change. If you don’t mind, some highlights: On the mitigation side in the last 3 years we went through a revolution in our energy market, reducing the use of coal significantly to less than 30 % today. We deploy investments and measures to drive energy efficiency. We are executing a plan to entirely stop using coal by 2030. We also revolutionized the transportation market by banning the usage of polluting large diesel vehicles, subsidizing scr apping of old and polluting vehicles, installation of air pollution filters an d electric transportation. We are executing a plan to stop the import of combustion engines by 2030. We are dramatically reducing pollution and emissions like never before. On the adaptation side we recently adopted a government decision on Adaptation to Climate Change, which requires all Ministries and r elevant agencies to prepare for such anticipated events such as flood s, extreme weather events, fires, new disease and other potential risks. The government will monitor closely the progress of implementin g this program - as I mentioned this is becoming more and more important as the effects of climate change increase and are already felt here and now. In addition to mitigation and adaptation, Israel, which is known as the " startup nation ", is recognized for its cutting edge technology and innovation. We are investing in growing our environmental technology sector, thereby enabling Israeli companies to introduce to us all, globally, solut ions to address environmental challenges. Technologies such as water management, desalination, wastewater reuse, smart energy grids, renewable energy, energy storage, smart agriculture, clean and healthy materials, collection of safe drinking water from the air and ma ny other great innovations are being developed. I would like to emphasize that we are committed and willing to shar e our knowledge, expertise and technology with all. Ladies and Gentlemen, Climate change is here. Its ef fects on our health and lives is real, is here, and immediate. We need to fight it and fight it now. It may seem a far dream that is not achievab le but as the dream of my family 70 plus years ago it can happen, it will happen. Together in a joint effort we will prevail. Thank you very much, Let's make it happen !