Statement of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan In COP 23 Delivered by: HE Dr Yaseen Khayyat Minister of Environment Excellency Frank Bainimarana President of COP23 Excellencies heads of delegations Ladies and Gentlemen, It is my pleasure to be addressing you today as the head of delegation of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. To begin with, I would like to express my admiration with the innovative idea of having a joint presidency-hosting structure for this COP23 where Fiji is the political president highlighting the leadership role to be played by developing countries facing the adverse impacts of climate change, and the Federal Republic of Germany hosting and supporting the event in a true role of global leadership that is a key to our joint efforts to address a challenge that hits the poor most, but does not spare anyone from its impact. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is determined and willing to play an essential part in that global effort. Our small country has always been a pioneer in embracing global values of development, human rights, peace and sustainability and acting as a model in implementing such values. Jordan is currently facing an extraordinary challenge that is unique in its geopolitical setting. Within the last three years, the population of Jordan has increased suddenly by about 20% due to the influx of refugees fleeing from the outrageous conditions caused by conflicts in Syria. We, in Jordan, are obliged to share our home to answer for the challenges of the refugees' crises. Therefore, we have to share our scarce resources with 9.5 million people which includes water, food and energy. Despite such challenges, Jordan is still determined to achieve the target set by its NDCs and to continue on the path of climate friendly sustainable development. In the Energy sector we are working relentlessly to diversify energy sources and are well on the track with our 2020 goals with 20% share of electricity generation mix comes from renewable sources. Jordan already faces severe water scarcity with a per capita share of 90 cubic meters per year, thus Jordan’s challenge in sustainable water is an issue of a national security dimension. Such a pressure will have difficult economic and livelihood impacts on our economy and generations to come. Excellencies Jordan is hopeful that COP 23 will result in deepening the level of trust between all parties to the Paris Agreement. We are approaching the vital deadlines of 2018 and beyond, and there are the times where deals are made or broken. Trust is the key word, and with so many countries expressing their renewed pledges to support the Paris Agreement we can maintain the hope of achieving the desired impact. Trust will be done through the reciprocal actions of developed and developing countries. Developing countries shall continue to provide support through financial and technical means and make this support more accessible to key beneficiaries. Financial resources should be dispersed in a matter that addresses the real needs of developing countries, especially in areas of adaptation, loss and damage, capacity development and technology transfer. Transparency frameworks for financial flow are also vital to identify the volume and trends of climate finance and how they can be checked and balanced to guarantee fairness and real impact. Developing countries need to commit to a path of low emission development that responds at the same time to their own sustainable development needs. Such voluntary commitment must stem from domestic needs and priorities and be able to contribute to achieving national sustainable development goals in complete alignment with global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) As a developing nation, Jordan will enhance its efforts in mitigation in the context of sustainable development, poverty eradication, and "Leaving No One Behind". Through collaboration (North-South and South-South) we ought to create a reliable global financing mechanisms for climate actions. The leadership in Jordan believes that ambition and progression should be part of the elements of adaptation as well as mitigation. We also believe that some of the most vulnerable ecosystems should receive special attention in climate support, like oceans that are the biggest sink of GHG emissions and highly impacted with sea water warming, as well as desert and semi-desert ecosystems that are most vulnerable to climate change but still represent the key productivity base for many low income countries. Let us always remember that hurricanes, flashfloods and draughts are caused by one culprit. Excellencies The road ahead may not be an easy path in terms of economic, financial, technological and social challenges. However, the commitment to collective well-being that was reflected in the aftermath of COP 22 ought to be the driving force for our continuous contribution to make a change for sustainable future. The future looks brighter, indeed. Thank you