Speech of the Vice -Minister of Energy of the RK Sadibekov G.K. for COP23 / CMP13 High-Level Segment Bonn, Germany 16 November 2017 Dear Mr. Chairman, Distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the organizers for hosting the Twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Republic of Kazakhstan, along with the world community, pays much attention to global climate change. Kazakhstan, being a Party to international climate agreements, ratified the Paris Agreement, having undertaken a voluntary contribution to reduce gr eenhouse gas emissions by 15% from the level of 1990 to 2030. This goal is to be achieved by stimulating the best available technologies in the industry, involving renewable energy sources in the balance, and emissions trading system. The GHG emissions tra ding system is an effective market mechanism for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our country is one of the first countries of the post -Soviet union area to launch this system in 2013. Mechanisms for the support of renewable energy sources adopted in 200 9 made it possible to quickly launch the renewable energy sources (RES) market and implement the following projects for the production of electric power: wind, solar, and small hydropower (stations less than 35 MW). At present, there are 55 operating rene wable energy sources in the Republic of Kazakhstan with a total capacity of 336 MW (Hydro Power Plants (HPPs) - 171, Wind Power Stations - 107, Solar Power Stations - 58) and investors' interest in implementing renewable energy projects continues to grow. In addition, in 2013, the President approved the Concept for transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a "Green economy". Measures for the transition to a green economy are implemented in seven areas: 1) sustainable use of water resources, 2) developme nt of sustainable and high -performance agriculture, 3) energy conservation and energy efficiency, 4) development of the electric power industry, 5) waste management system, 6) reduction of air pollution, 7) conservation and effective management of ecosyste ms. Target indicators, norms and measures of the "green" economy are reflected in legislative acts and program documents of our country, and became as guidelines for all levels of government and all sectors of civil society. We associate the cooperation with the Green Climate Fund as a key role in achieving the above -mentioned goals. With a view to attract the fund's investments in the real sectors of Kazakhstani economy, from the autumn of last year, together with the United Nations Development Program and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a large - scale work was carried out to prepare the National Work Plan with the Green Climate Fund (GCF) for a total amount of 800 million US dollars. To date, the Fund has approved an application fo r funding activities to support readiness for work with the GCF in the amount of 300 thousand of US dollars. We reached an agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the allocation of 200 million euros from the side of the bank, with an additional 480 million euros for investing in renewable energy projects in Kazakhstan. The Green Climate Fund approved financing for Kazakhstan in the amount of 110 million US dollars. As of January 1, 2018, an improved system of emissions trading scheme of greenhouse gas emissions allowances will be put in place. Also, next year, we plan to conduct the first pilot auctions for the purchase of electricity produced by Renewable Energy Sources (RES). Continued systematic work will be undertaken t o integrate climate change adaptation issues into the national legislation and develop a national adaptation plan for climate change. Ladies and Gentlemen, All of you have witnessed the success of the International Specialized Exhibition EXPO -2017 in As tana. The government selected 105 technologies for demonstration in foreign pavilions and 28 technologies of domestic scientists - in the national pavilion of "Kazakhstan". As you may know, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, at the closing of EXP O-2017 announced that the International Center for the Development of Green Technologies and Investment Projects “Future Energy” will be established on the territory of the exhibition. This initiative was first announced by the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly in 2015. The Center will be established as a legacy of the EXPO exhibition and the idea of its creation is based on a long -term strategy of building the capacity of Kazakhstan and the Central Asian region with the application of an innovative approach and the best world practices in the transition to a "green economy". The goal of the center is to promote the practical implementation of the transition to a green economy by supporti ng the formation of a sustainable framework necessary for the development of such areas as renewab le energy, environmentally friendly technologies and sustainable development, as well as strengthening international cooperation under the G reen Bridge Partne rship Program. The main tasks of the center are: - Transformation of the energy sector; - Sustainable urban development; - Transition to the "green" business; - Transfer and adaptation of green technologies and best practices; - Development of green finan ce; - Development of renewable energy; - Building of the green growth potential. The Center will ensure the interaction of countries in the transfer of green technologies, consulting services, training and demonstration of technologies, including expertise, advice on green financing, which will accelerate the implementation of projects for the "green economy". The effect f rom the Center will be to further integrate the Republic of Kazakhstan into the system of regional and international relations, since th e activities of the Center are focused on the implementation of the above measures, primarily in the countries of Central Asia (Republic of Kazakhstan, Republic of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyz Republic, Republ ic of Tajikistan, Turkmenistan), Iran, Afghanistan, Mongo lia, and Azerbaijan. In addition, ICGT will also cooperate with the industrialized countries of the OECD, the European Union, the United States, the Russian Federation, China and India. The establishment of the center is a legacy of the international exhib ition and a continuation of the Green Bridge Partnership Program. The Centre will be located within the territory of the Astana International Financial Centre, which addresses green finance as one of its strategic directions. Here I would like to highlight that parallel introduction of green finance is one of the constituents of green growth. Recently, Astana International Financial Centre has developed a Concept of Green Financial System for Kazakhstan based on world best practices, including China, Scandi navian countries and Western European states. Currently, the Astana Financial Centre is working on the regional strategy on becoming a green finance hub for Central Asia and Eastern Europe. Thus, Kazakhstan is comprehensively approaching the issue of green economy by activating all levers of influence. Dear participants, distinguished Chairman! Kazakhstan is in the process of transition from one of the world's leading producers of hydrocarbon energy to the green economy model. By promoting international initiatives in the field of sustainable development and the transfer of environmentally friendly technologies, we are confident that Kazakhstan and the countries of Central Asia will have the opportunity to combat the adverse effects of climate change, st imulate green growth and develop a sustainable economy. Thank You for your attention!