High Level segment Marrakech, Morocco November 16, 2016 Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, | would like to express my gratitude to the People and Government of Morocco for holding the Climate Conference in this beautiful city of Marrakech. | also want to congratulate everyone with the historical event — the Paris Agreement has already entered into force. As a coal and oil rich country we hold the 8" place on coal and 12 on oil reserves in the world respectively. In terms of oil production, we are planning to achieve 1,6 million barrels per day. 80 percent of electricity in Kazakhstan is generated by coal— powered stations. ’ However, we understand our liability to the world community. We are facing the impacts of global warming today. Therefore, we set up a national target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 15% by 2030. We intend to reach this goal through concrete actions at the national level and via international cooperation. | would like to inform you that on November 4" our President signed a Law on Paris Agreement ratification. We are supportive to cooperative and logical implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and Paris Agreement at the national, regional and international levels. Kazakhstan was the first country in the Central Asia adopting the Concept of transition to green economy. It has the following goals: _ po Aintiann nf tha MND anarny intancity ta DRY hy IONIAN and legislative base for low-carbon aevelopment. VWWe Nave alope the laws supporting renewables, energy saving and energy efficiency. We believe that mechanisms provided by the Paris Agreement will help us achieve our goals. Our President Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev has proposed three international initiatives to accelerate technology transfer: e First, “Green Bridge” Partnership Program, adopted at Rio plus 20 and dedicated to technology transfer from the developed to developing countries; e Second, hosting the EXPO-2017 exhibition and e Finally, establishing the International Center on Green Technologies under the UN auspices. Next year in June, EXPO-2017 with the topic “Future Energy” will be opened in Astana. This platform will unite the world community to share experience and knowledge in the field of “clean” energy and will help developing advanced low-carbon technologies. We will be glad, if you are able to come to Kazakhstan and visit EXPO, deliver your new visions and creative ideas. Our third initiative presented at the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly is to launch the International Center for green technologies and investments in Astana; and we hope you will support it. The Center will be aimed to promote principles and standards of green growth. We believe that these contributions and efforts will allow us to continue discussions on developing rules and mechanisms for og 4h. eo a a Kazakhstan is undergoing a transition trom one of tne world’s biggest hydrocarbon energy producers to a model of “green” economy. Putting forward international initiatives on sustainable development and transferring clean technologies we can ensure that Kazakhstan and Central Asian countries have the capability to combat the adverse impacts of climate change, unlock green growth and develop sustainable economies. Thank you for your attention!