KENYA’S STATEMENT AT THE OPENING PLENARY OF COP26, CMP16, CMA3, SBSTA 52 – 55, AND SBI 52 - 55 Your Excellency Mr. Alok Sharma, the President of COP26, Your Excellency Carolina Schmidt, the outgoing President of COP25, Mr Tosi Mpanu Mpanu, Chair of the SB STA, Ms Marianne Karlsen, Chair of the SBI, Excellencies, distinguished delegates; 1. Kenya is glad to be part of this unique but critical Twenty -Sixth Session of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26), the Sixteenth Session of The Conference of Parties Meeting as Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP16), the Sixteenth Session of the Conference of Parties Meeting as Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA3), as well as the 52nd to 55th Session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA 52 - 55) and the 52nd to 55th Session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI 52 - 55). Kenya aligns her position with the statements by the AGN as well as the G77&China. 2. On the item on Special nee ds and special circumstances of Africa, Kenya notes that despite the fact that the African continent has very low historical and current emissions (accounting for about 4% of global emissions), IPCC reports demonstrate that Africa is h ighly vulnerable and impacted by Climate Change. These have led to increased water stress, cyclic floods and droughts, food insecurity, population displacem ents, resource based conflicts among others. Africa has resource and technical constraints in addressing these vulnerabil ities. In this light, Kenya supports the inclusion of the item on “Special needs and special circumstances of Africa ” to guide in addressing these needs. 3. Regarding the pending items of the Paris Rule Book, we need to ensure that we finalise it at this ses sion. a. On the item on common time -frames ; we need to respond to the scientific evidence that shows that more ambitious emissions reduction is required if we are to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of 1.50C. We need to avoid locking -in low ambition over a l ong period of time. In the basic structure of the Paris Agreement, the common thread that runs through the Paris Agreement, both in NDC and Global Stocktake, is a 5-year cycle. In this regard, Kenya therefore appeals to Parties to agree on a 5-year common time frame. b. On Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, i. Kenya supports the use of cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, with the application of corresponding adjustments to avoid double counting in the use of ITMOs towards NDCs and for other purposes (outside the NDCs). For consistency purposes, the ITMOs should be measured in tCO 2e, and be in the form of emissions by sources and removals including by sinks. There is need for a share of proceeds (preferably of 5%) to the Adaptation Fund to address concrete adaptation needs of vulnerable populations at the grassroots ii. Regarding the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, Kenya supports the transition of Kyoto Protocol mechanism, CDM, projects and programme of activities into the new Article 6.4 mechanism subject to meeting Art 6.4 requirements as well as the host Party authorization and that they should undergo an expedited registration process. Kenya supports the application of corresponding adjustment for Art icle 6.4 units that are internationally transferred, and that activities with removals by sinks should be included. Kenya reiterates the need for the application of the share of proceeds levied from Art 6 to be towards the Adaptation Fund. iii. Regarding the f ramework for non -market approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 8, Kenya supports the establishment of a concrete implementation framework to implement the framework and work programme under non -market approaches. Kenya’s view is that Non -market act ivities can include Forestry activities that unlock funding from Payment for Ecosystem Services (PES) Kenya supports the development of implementing tools for example a UNFCCC web-based platform for exchanging information. Kenya’s view is that the Non -market approaches can build on the outputs of Koronovia Joint Work on Agriculture such as methodologies that can lead to replicable and scalable projects and programmes across Parties. c. On reporting under the Transparency Framework, in order to spur confidenc e and provide the desired leadership in climate action, Kenya reiterates that Developed countries have an overarching obligation to adequately and transparently report climate finance provided and mobilized, as well as their greenhouse inventories in a tim e. Overall, there is need to clear existing ambiguity in the climate finance architecture around the definition, modalities and methodologies used in order to enhance transparency in reporting. 4. Concerning the items on Market and non -market mechanisms under the Convention, Kenya’s view is that this item should be deferred till after Article 6 is finalized, and proposes that they be deferred to SBSTA 56. Once Article 6 is agreed on Parties will still need to deliberate whether to conclude it or what it will d o moving forward without overlapping with Article 6. 5. Regarding Climate Finance, the determination of needs of developing countries should inform the on -going discussions in setting the new post -2025 climate finance goal to enable it respond to needs of dev eloping countries. COP 26 should initiate the post -2025 new collective goal on climate finance based on these needs, as well as science. The report should set precedence to a new era of needs -based and impactful climate financing. Reporting on financial support provided and mobilized by developed countries should reflect the actual support received for climate action in developing countries, including the instruments. Kenya is concerned that developed countries have not delivered on the $100bn per year fina nce goal and any efforts post -2020 should deliver on the short falls so far and meet the $100bn per year through to 2025. 6. Regarding on the Koronivia Joint work on Agriculture, Kenya welcomes all the workshop reports on the Koronivia Joint work on Agricult ure road map this far and is ready to engage on the actionable recommendations thereof for implementation and institutionalization of the KJWA. However, on modalities for implementation of the workshop outcomes of the previous workshops, the KJWA topics an d the future topics, Kenya expresses her disappointment that discussions on the subject have been strong on technical aspects and less on implementation. Kenya calls upon all parties to consider the critical importance that agriculture plays in our economi es, livelihoods and in ensuring food security and agree on modalities to support the implementation of the outcomes of the past ten workshops since 2013 to date. Kenya therefore calls for adoption of a COP decision at COP26 that (i) establishes KJWA as a C onstituted Body or Committee under the Convention or (ii) establishes an International Agriculture Program within the UNFCCC process or (iii) requests for establishment of a Requests for Proposals (RFP) mechanism under the Green Climate Fund (GCF) that set s aside a sum of money dedicated to support developing countries to submit proposals geared towards implementation of the outcomes of the KJWA on issues related to agriculture or (iv) a combination of both the three above. Kenya subsequently proposes that KJWA Future Topics, should be s ubject to adoption of a COP decision on modalities for implementation of the workshop outcomes so as to ensure that there is a balance between technical work and implementation of its outcomes. 7. On the forum on the impact of t he implementation of response measures, Kenya proposes that the KCI should provide a support infrastructure to enable experts carry out technical assessments of impacts of the response measures. Kenya proposes that Parties should develop mechanisms for (i) retooling and retraining of workers and professions affected by response measures (ii) cushion developing countries that have fossil fuel resources from lost opportunities due to forgoing the exploitation of fossil fuel resources in order to avoid the an ticipated greenhouse gas emissions (iii) cushion developing countries that had invested in infrastructure to exploit their fossil fuels, so as to relieve them of the dead assets burden (iv)cushion consumers of goods that may become expensive to the consume rs as a result of new or expensive technology alternatives to high emitting BAU grey technologies (v) incentivize the creation of green well paying jobs, profitable businesses, affordable quality green products and strengthen the associated value chains. 8. Concerning the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, Kenya c alls for scaled up new and additional finance for loss and damage with separate accounting/reporting modalities. Kenya recognises the impact o f loss and damag e on women, youth, children, people abled differently and other vulnerable groups and call for integration of these groups in the WIM’s work. Kenya supports that, the WIM be governed by both the COP and CMA but not limited to CMA alone. It is Kenya’s view that the Santiago Network’s function should go beyond technical support and capacity building to include resource mobilisation for loss and damage. We therefore call for full operationalization of the Santiago Network to enable it to cataly se the technical assistance to developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to tackle loss and damage. There is need to enhance the scope of the SNLD’s technical support for accessing means of implementatio n to develop and implement approaches to address loss and damage. 9. Regarding the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, Kenya reiterates the value of indigenous knowledge in addressing climate change, especially in the African context. Kenya ca lls for the completion of items in the work plan and urges Parties to consider support for the implementation of the outcomes from the Platform so that the platform doesn’t stagnate at bei ng a just a Parties’ talk-shop. 10. On Matters relating to the Adaptatio n Fund, concerning the Membership of the Adaptation Fund Board, Kenya welcomes the decision that allowed all Parties that are Parties to the Paris Agreement to be eligible for membership on the Adaptation Fund Board. However, Kenya feels that this inclusio n should not alter the current balance in the composition of the Board where developing country parties are the majority. Kenya therefore feels that there is no need to reconsider the structure of the AFB. Regarding the Fourth review of the Adaptation Fun d, Kenya’s feels that t here is need to carry out a comprehensive backward and forward looking review of the AF so as to (i) reflect lessons le arnt and chart a way forward (ii) strengthen the AF secretariat operations to effectively serve the PA; and Keny a feels that there is need to focus on strengthening AF regional engagements, with regional nodes to support establishment and strengthening of NIEs 11. On the Development and transfer of technologies, Kenya reiterates the importance of technology as a key pil lar to climate action. Regarding the joint annual report of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network, Kenya welcomes the 2020 Joint Annual Report (JAR) of the Technology Mechanism (TM) and acknowledges the achievemen ts of the TM in the difficult period under review including the encouraging outcome of the collaboration between the Technology Mechanism and the operating entities of the Financial mechanism among other achievements. Kenya is in great need of deploying low carbon climate resilient technologies and looks forward to the continued support of the TM in satisfying this need for the implementation of its plans and strategies for its development and for the achievement of the objectives of the Convention and the Paris Agreement. Predictable financial support to the CTCN is a concern that Kenya would like to be promptly addressed. Regarding the Alignment between processes pertaining to the review of the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the periodic assessm ent, Kenya appreciates the importance of the processes in enhancing the effectiveness of the technology mechanism for its continued operation for the benefit of developing countries. The alignment process should ensure retention of the value it adds to the effectiveness of the Technology Mechanism in carrying out its mandates in the implementation of the convention and the Paris Agreement; and in ensuring timeliness and harmony with other critical events of the convention and agreement. Regarding the Poznan strategic programme on technology transfer, Kenya appreciates specific guidance so far provided to the CTCN in its collaboration with the African Development Bank and the Global Environment Facility to establish a useful way forward with respect to the Africa regional energy centres, based on the lessons learned; and calls for elaborate engagement on the same. Concerning the Linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, Kenya maintains that this agenda item be ret ained given that the positive results of the linkages are now being realised as a result of guidance previously provided; hence the need to continue providing guidance for attainment of optimal levels of output. 12. On Matters relating to capacity -building, regarding Capacity -building under the Convention, Kenya takes note of the fourth review and welcome the initiation of the fifth review of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition. Kenya urges the SBI continue to monitor a nd report on the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing and SBI deliberation of the key findings in thee Durban Forum on capacity -building and the meetings of the PCCB. It is Kenya’s view that the PCCB should then enhance coher ence and coordination of capacity -building efforts and ensure that identified capacity gaps and needs, both current and emerging, and recommendations are addressed in a timely manner. On Capacity -building under the Kyoto Protocol, Kenya welcomes the initia tion of the fourth framework for capacity -building in developing countries and the fifth review of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition. Kenya urges continual support to developing countries on capacity building on current and emerging areas especially matters relating to Article 6 and 13 of the Paris agreement. On Matters related to Action for Climate Empowerment, regarding the Review of the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention, Kenya take s note of the suggested elements for the review Doha work programme and in particular the continuation of annual in -session ACE dialogues, organization of youth forum, development & implementation of ACE strategies. Kenya supports a robust and balanced implementation of the 6 priority areas (Education, training, public awareness, public access to information, public participation, and international cooperation). It is our view that the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and other development financial instit utions to dedicate specific funding for ACE activities. There is need for strengthening the network of ACE national focal points to exchange views, including via a platform or regular meetings. 13. Regarding Report on activities related to Action for Climate E mpowerment, Kenya takes note of the 8th ACE Dialogue, and encourages the Youth under YOUNGO, ACE Focal Persons to continue with their meetings and events. Kenya notes that the ACE forum has multiple benefits, including being a driver of climate action, and a tool for achieving climate targets, a hub for multilevel, multi - stakeholder collaboration and a source of innovation and new ideas for climate action. 14. It is therefore Kenya’s hope that this Conference avails a great opportunity, not just to richly excha nge of views, but to make bold decisions that will spur accelerated climate action and enable us achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. Thank you all.