1 STATEMENT BY HIS EXCELLENCY HON. UHURU KENYATTA, C.G.H., PRESIDENT AND COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THE DEFENCE FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA ON THE OCCASION OF HIGH-LEVEL SEGMENT UN CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE IN MARRAKECH, MOROCCO ON 15TH NOVEMBER, 2016 Your Majesty Mohammed VI, King of Morocco; Your Excellency, Abdelilah Benkirane, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Morocco; Your Excellency Ban Ki-Moon, the United Nations Secretary-General; Your Excellencies, Heads of respective State and Governments; Distinguished Delegates; Ladies and Gentlemen, 1. Kenya is honoured to participate in this important Climate Change Conference here in Marrakech, Morocco. I thank the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Morocco for the warm welcome and hospitality accorded to my delegation since our arrival here. I also congratulate Morocco for hosting the first climate change conference, “for Action”, after the historic Paris Agreement last year. 2. Kenya welcomes the coming into force of the Paris Agreement, with the confidence that the Agreement will provide the much-needed impetus to address climate change for a safer future. This universal Agreement is the beginning of renewed transparent, enhanced, global ambitious action and support to address the challenge of climate change in the short and long terms. 3. We should aim to ensure achievement of the long-term global goal of stabilizing the global temperature increase to below 1.5 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial levels, which gives hope to the most vulnerable countries and communities. 4. We also appreciate the Agreement’s linkages to the Sustainable Development Goals that include ending extreme poverty; fighting inequality and injustice; and taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Of course, this comes with the need to synergize the implementation processes of both. Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, 2 5. The development of the rule book to guide the implementation of the Agreement must continue to take on board the key elements of the Agreement and keep in focus the objective, principles and provisions of the Convention, including Equity and Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities; and parity between mitigation, adaptation and provisions for enhancing means of implementation. It must take into consideration the increased burden for adaptation in developing countries. 6. The process should also take into consideration the obligations of developed country Parties to provide additional, predictable and sustainable support in terms of finance, technology and capacity building to meet the adaptation and mitigation needs of the developing country Parties. Ladies and Gentlemen, 7. Climate change continues to adversely impact Kenya’s socio-economic sectors. 8. Kenya submitted an ambitious Intended Nationally Determined Contribution within the context of the pre-2020 ambition and the Paris Agreement, even though our contribution is a mere 0.1% of the total global emission. Our Nationally Determined Contribution has both priority adaptation and mitigation actions, signaling our resolve, as a country, to address adaptation and mitigation in a balanced manner. 9. I am pleased to announce that Kenya now has a Climate Change Act and a National Adaptation Plan. The two build on the foundation laid by the National Climate Change Action Plan (2013-2017), through a very comprehensive and inclusive process. 10. The Act strengthens climate change governance, institutional arrangements, and mainstreaming of climate change into sectoral planning, budgeting and implementation at all levels of government. 11. To build resilience and enhance adaptive capacities to the impacts of climate change, our National Adaptation Plan contains sector strategic adaptation actions for each planning sectors, based on our view that all our sectors are vulnerable to climate change. 12. The Act and National Adaptation Plan were developed through multi-stakeholder engagement and contribute to the national implementation of the Paris Agreement. 13. Our domestic measures and actions to address climate change include expansion in geothermal, solar, wind and other renewables and clean energy options; progress towards achieving and maintaining a tree cover of at least 10% of the country’s land area; and low carbon and efficient transportation systems; among others. 3 14. From the foregoing, Kenya recognizes the benefits of putting in place legal and institutional frameworks as well as strategic plans to enhance coordination of climate change responses. This will also contribute towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Ladies and Gentlemen, 15. In conclusion, my Cabinet has already approved the ratification of the Paris Agreement. I urge other Parties that have not yet ratified the Agreement to do so. 16. We therefore look forward to the rolling out of the implementation of the Agreement for the benefit of present and future generations. I thank you all.