Page 1 of 2 CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES 28 HIGH LEVEL SESSION ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY TANETI MAAMAU PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KIRIBATI HIGH LEVEL SESSION 10 DECEMBER, 2023 DUBAI Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished delegates and Youth, In His Holy name, allow me to extend warm greetings from the Government and the people of Kiribati – Kam na Mauri ! Mr. President, As we gather for this crucial high -level session, the urgency of our mission cannot be overstated. Recent extreme weather events jeopardize the security and well -being of our youth. Kiribati’s vision for 20 years charts a course toward a brighter future for our young generation. As world leaders, o ur capacity to enhance the health, well-being and safety of our youth is far from our reach. Safeguarding their prospects through the availability of essential goods and service s cannot be realized without political commitment. This COP must prioritise the phasing out of fossil fuels to align with a 1.5 degrees Celsius pathway, and peaking emissions by 2025. Page 2 of 2 The best available s cience shows that current global commitments to NDC s will overshoot the 1.5 degrees Celsius threshold. These reports demand of us a robust and ambitious globa l stocktake outcome to course correct. It compel s developed countries to just transition, increas e financ e and technical support taking into consideratio n the special circumstances of the most vulnerable, SIDS. Mr President, I congratulate your work to secure pledges adopted on the first day of this COP for the Loss and Damage Fun d. While this is a welcome progress, I wish to highlight the need for the continued capitalization of the Fund, encourage its swift operationalization and simplified accessibility for SIDS. Despite our limited resources, we continue our presence because of our faith i n multilateralism to solve our greates t challenge. Yet, the current state of the negotiations is concerning. I implore all Parties not to allow distractions that shift goal posts. The COVID -19 pandemic taught us a valuable lesson. That through collective action, we can unite, act and deliver the same for the climate agenda. I applaud the UN’s promise to our youth at this COP to do everything to secure their future on our islands. I strongly urge my fellow leaders to place youth at the forefront of our decisions so we can build a resilient, prosperous and sustainable future. May the Kiribati blessing of Te Mauri, Te Raoi ao Te Tabomoa be upon us all. I thank you.