Lao People’s Democratic Republic Statement by H.E. Ms Bounkham Vorachit Vice Minister, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic at the High Level Segment United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP23/CMP13/ CMA1.2 ) 16 November 2017, Bonn Mr. President, At the outset, on behalf of the delegation of the Lao’s People Democratic Republic, I would like to extend my congratulation to Your Excellency the Prime Minister of Fiji on your election as president of this COP 23. I am confident that with your experience and wisdom, you will guide this session with a great success. Mr. President, Last year we were celebrating the Pari s Agreement momentum. The year that has passed since COP 22, we have seen unprecedented extreme weather events around the world and changes to agriculture that are increasingly threatening our lives and our economies. This only re -enfor ces the need to turn the commitments and the momentum of the Paris Agreement into actions on the ground. Our efforts must be doubled to achieve our common and national objectives. Mr. President, Being both least developed and land -locked, the Lao PDR has continued to encounter various challenges that hi nder our socio -economic development and achievement of the agreed global development goals. Against this backdrop, Lao PDR has pursued its developm ent through the implementation of the 8th Five-Year National Socio -Economic Development Plan 2016 -2020, the Str ategy 2025 and the Vision 2030. In this context, we are working to manage our natural resources and environment according to green -growth and sustainable development principle s and a country that is resilient to disasters and to the effects of climate change. We want a change and we are already translating our political commitment into concrete actions. Additionally, we are determined to continue our efforts to increase our forest cover to 70 % by 2020, to increase the resilience of our agriculture and to restore and conserve the services of our valuable ecosystems. Our NDC implementation, its updating and the reporting of national progress require additional capacity and financial support to be deliver ed. In this regard, I take this opportunity to express our appreciation to all development partners for their continued support to our country. Finally, I wish to reaffirm our strong commitment in working in an inclusive, participatory and transparent dialogue needed to accelerate the momentum to "stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climat e system ”. In this context, as far as yesterday, 15th of November, Lao PDR has ratified the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. Again, w e reiterate our commitment to a common sustainable future. I thank you.