ASEAN JO INT STATEMENT ON CLIMATE CHANGE TO THE 22nd CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES (COP-22) TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC ) WE, the Heads of State/Governme nt of Bru nei Daruss alam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Re public of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Republic of the Union of Myanma r, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Mem ber States of ASEAN, on the occasion of the 28th and 29th ASEAN Summits in Vie ntiane, Lao PDR; RECALLING ASEAN Joint Statements on Climate Change and ASEAN Leaders’ Statements on Climate Change to the UNFCCC. NOTING that ASEAN Member States have undertaken substantive actions to address cl imate change by:  Submitting Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) in a timely manner;  Signing Paris Agreement on 22 April 2016 in New York, US A;  Implementing the ASEAN Community Roadmap 2009-2015 including ASEAN Action Plan on Joint Response to Climate Change (AAP-JRCC), the ASEAN For ging Ahead Together 2025, and developing the ASEAN Post 2015 Strategic Plan on Environme nt (ASPEN), and ASEAN-UN Action Plan on Environment and Climate Change 2016-2020;  Promoting sustainable management of forest that will contribute to reducing forest degradation and deforestation, and also the enhancement of carbon sink capacity through own capacity, bilateral and multilateral cooperation. GRAVELY CON CERNED abou t the impacts of climate change throughout the ASEAN region as outlined in the Assessment Reports (AR) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in areas such as extreme climate event, food, water and energy security, livelihood s, health, land use and biodiversity incl uding dispro portionate impacts on women and children. REAFFIRMING our commitment to the UNFCCC, and its principles and provisions, in particular the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR), and its centrality in the Paris Agreement. FURTHER REAFFIRMING thatefforts to address climate change should be consistent with broader Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs ). RECOGNIS ING the importance of enhanced pre-2020 ambition to ramp up mitigation actions and provide means of impleme ntation that will underpin effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and to serve as lessons learnt for achieving Post 2020 actions. WELCO MING the commitment demonstrated by Parties to the UNFCCC in signing the Paris Agreement and beginning the work of developing the modalities, procedures and guidelines for its i mpleme ntation, URGENTLY HIGHL IGHTING that adequate, predictable, and needs-based technology developmen t and transfer, capacity building and financial support are needed to further scale up adaptation and mitigation efforts, and enhance awareness in the ASEAN re gion. EMPHASISING Parties to the UNFCCC ability to access re adiness and implementation support from t he Green Climate Fund (GCF ). NOTING the recent establishment of the Capacity-building Initiative for Transparency (CBIT) under the UNFCCC aimed at strengthening t he institutional and technical capacities of developing countries to meet the enhanced transparency re quiremen ts in the Paris Agreement. RECOGNIS ING the important role of GCF in accelerating paradigm shift towards low emission and climate resilient development pathways. DO HEREB Y: 1. COMMIT to strengthen the management of ASEAN’s diverse ecosystems and landscapes including its vulnerable terrestrial, coastal and marine ecosystems through a landscape-based approach to build climate resilience; 2. URGE developed countries to provide assistance to ASEAN Mem ber States to enhance protection and sustainable use of biodiversity and systematic rehabilitation of forest ecosystems including rain forest, mangrove and peatland, in recognition of their critically important roles in mitigation and adaptation; 3. STRENGT HEN the ASEAN rapid response capacity to be more efficient and effective in the event of natural disasters through existing mechanisms under the ASEAN Agreement on Disaster Management and Emergency Res ponse (AADMER ); 4. URGE all Parties to the UNFCCC to recognise the extreme vulnerability of ASEAN M ember States to climate change; 5. ENCOURAGE Parties to the UNFCCC to develop their respective National Adaptation Plans (NAPs) that are consistent with, and address t he threats identified in the IPCC AR5; 6. CON TINUE to explore means of further enhancing sustainable development efforts in the region under the CBDR principles as entrenched in the Convention; 7. CALL UPON developed countries to realise the fulfillment of the existing mitigation and financial suppo rt commitments of USD1 00 billion per year unde r the Convention during the pre-2020 period 8. URGE Parties to the UNFCCC to enhan ce ambition on adaptation, mitigation, finance, technology development and transfer, capacity building and transparency of actions and support during the pre-2020 period; in particul ar through the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol in the second commitment period by all Parties, and the outcome of the Bali Action Plan; 9. ENCOURAGE Parties to the UNFCCC that have not yet communicated their (I)NDCs to do so expeditiously in support of a successful COP-22; 10. ENCOURAGE Parties to the UNFCCC to ratify the Paris Agreement as soon as possible and to support the Agreement’s early entry into force; 11. REQUE ST support for developing c ountries and least developed countries to pursue sustainable development opportunities that can enable mitigation and adaptation efforts to be included in their (I)NDCs as appropriate, noting that mitigation and adaptation efforts can have strong regional co-benefits which contribute, inter alia, to food, water, energy security and local culture; 12. URGE developed countries to expedite the provision of the means of implementation in terms of capacity building, technical assistance, technology development and transfer, and financing, during the pre and post-2020 time frame in addressing mitigation, adaptation, and loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change; 13. REQUE ST enhanced support from Annex 1 Parties to the UNFCCC to ASEAN Member States to better unde rstand, develop and implement Measurement, Reporting and Verification (MRV); 14. URGE dono rs to make contributions to the CBIT Trust Fund under the Global Environme ntal Facility (GEF) in order to start its implementation; 15. URGE GCF to expedite establishing a clear access mechanism for Parties to the UNFCCC and to accelerate the operationalisation of result-based payments for RED D+ in ASEAN; 16. SEEK assistances in the form of applicable technology transfer to strengthen mitigation and adaptation efforts as well as early warning system to reduce impact of disasters.; 17. CALL UPON all Parties to the UNFCCC to continue working effectively and in good faith on developing mechanisms and modalities towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Adopted in Vientiane, Lao PDR, the Sixth day of September in the Year Two Thousand and Sixteen.