1 Lao People’s Democratic Republic Statement by H.E Mme Bounkham Vorachit Minister of Natural Resources and Environment at the High-level Segment of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP27) 15 November 2022 Sharm El Sheik, Egypt 2 Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen, At the outset, on behalf of the delegation of the Lao PDR, I would like to express our sincere appreciation to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt for its able presidency and excellent hosting of this meaningful COP27. Mr. President, Having recognized the importance of combating climate change, the Government of Lao PDR has been working attentively with relevant international organizations, development partners and all relevant stakeholders including young generation to develop informed and sound climate change policies, including Updated National Climate Change Strategy towards 2030, Updated Nationally Determined Contribution (2021-2025) and mainstreaming climate change adaptation and mitigation measures into Financing Strategy for the 9th National Socio-Economic Development Plan (2021-2025). Currently, we are working on forestry carbon sequestration, clean energy, green industry, electric mobility, circular economy, and carbon financing instruments. All of these strategies and actions could help Lao PDR to pursue its path to decouple greenhouse gas emissions from economic growth aimed at achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. To this end, there is pressing need for adequate financial resources and technical support for gaining access to climate finance and other sources of funding to support our country, as LDC and LLDC, to achieve development goals and commitments made under the Paris Agreement. In this regard, we call for renewed political will coupled with concrete outcomes and measures taken by the international community during this COP27 to preserve our only one planet for many generations to come. At the same time, I call upon all other development partners and donor countries to fulfill their commitments in good faith in this regard. Mr. President, Let me conclude by reaffirming the Government of Lao PDR’s firm commitment to the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to combating climate change. Taking this opportunity, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation to the international community for continued support and assistance to the Lao PDR for our efforts towards climate change adaptation and mitigation. Thank you.