1 Lao People’s Democratic Republic Statement by H.E Mme Bounkham Vorachit Minis ter of Natural Resources and Environment at the High -level Segment Ministerial Level of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP26) November 2021 Glasgow, United Kingdom 2 Mr. President, Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen, At the outset, on behalf of the government of the Lao PDR, I would like to express our sincere appreciation to the Government of the United Kingdom, in partnership with Italy, for their great effort to host this meaningful Conference despite challenges caused by the on -going COVID - 19 pandemic. Mr. President, The Lao P DR has attached great importance to combating climate change. We are committed to implement the Paris Agreement by incorporating its relevant provisions into our National Socio -Economic Development Plan and National Green Growth Strategy while promoting international cooperation and engagement of relevant stakeholders. Early this year, the Lao government has revised our Nationally Determined Contribution (N DC) that clearly outlines ambitious targets of the national actions for tackling and mitigating climate change toward achieving net -zero emissions by 2050. We have also set out lofty goals to achieve by 2030 which include, among others, reduc ing the greenhouse gas emissions by 60 percent, increasing forest cover to 70% of total land area, promoting increased use of renewable and clean energy through a 30% share of electric vehicles, 10% biof uel, and improv ing water management practices. In order to translate our NDC into reality, there is a pressing need for adequate financial resources, including enhanced financial and technical support and assistance from the international community especially develop ment partners. It is our firm belief that gaining access to climate finance and other sources of funding is crucial to support ing developing countries, especially LDCs, LLDCs and SIDS to achieve the ir developme nt goals and commitments made under the Paris Agreement. Mr. President, Having recognized the paramount importance of p romoting clean and renewable energy and the role of forest cover as a pathway to decouple greenhouse gas emissions, the government of Lao PDR has further initiated several measures and policies, including the recent announcement of policy on the use of electric vehicles, the allocation of 16.5 million hectares as forestland to increase forest cover as well as the plan to develop a 600 -megawatt wind power plant which is the first cross -border electricity interchange from wind power generation in the region. In addition, we have implemented the Safe Clean Climate Resilient Hospital Initiative to further promote low carbon environmentally sustainable technology as well as green procurement and supply. This is the first significant step by the health sector to begin developing plan for implementing low -carbon, resilient health care. Mr. President, 3 Let me conclude by reiterating the Lao PDR’s firm commitment to undertake urgently our common task of combat ing climate change through vigorously implementing the Paris Agreement in collaboration with all stakeholders and by call for strong political will coupled with concrete actions taken by all Parties to curb the rise in global greenhouse gas emission s and limit global warming to 1.5 degree Celsius as set out in the Paris Agreement. Last but not least, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation to the international community for continued support and assistance to the Lao PDR for our efforts towards the climate change adaptation and mitigation. I thank you.