1 Statement by the President of Latvia, H.E. Edgars Rinkēvičs at the 28th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP28) Dubai, 1 December 2023 Dear Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, Today we gather in the shadow of escalating climate crises that respects no border. Climate change has devastating consequences on human lives, nature and economies. Therefore, the key word is action. This includes mitigation and adaptation measures, as well as climate finance. We must recognize that the longer we wait, the higher the price becomes. It is in terms of monetary value, in terms of human lives and biodiversity. Latvia, as an EU Member State, is committed to contribute to the achievement of the global climate goals. We are on a pathway to climate neutrality by 2050. Latvia is currently finalizing work on the Climate Law. It inscribes emission targets into Latvia’s legislation. This will become the backbone of Latvia’s climate policy and sustainable economic growth. Additionally, Latvia will allocate funds to the United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund. Our duty is to protect and empower those who find themselves on the frontline of climate adversity. Yet they are the least responsible for the carbon footprint. By bolstering CERF, we are sending a message of solidarity and support for immediate action tod ay. 2 Let us commit to delivering concrete solutions and commitments at COP28. We must achieve meaningful progress on the three pillars of the Paris Agreement. We have to finalize the first Global Stocktake. Latvia welcomes the decision on the Loss and Damage fund, and we look forward to helping ensure it plays a critical role in supporting recovery in future. We also have to address the current escalations of violence in the Middle East and Russia’s war of aggression and ecocide in Ukraine. Wars and conflict are taking a tragic toll on human life and the livelihood around. It worsens the climate crises. It is our common responsibility to use these two weeks in the most efficient way. Let us embrace our duty as advocates for those who can and cannot speak for themselves in the face of climate change.