1 STATEMENT BY H.E. HO N. MOKOTO HLOAELE MINISTER OF ENERGY AND METEOROLOGY AT THE TWENTY FOURTH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES (COP24) TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTON ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE FOURTEENTH SESSION OF TH E CONFE RENCE OF THE PARTIES SERVING AS THE MEETING OF THE PARTIES TO THE KYOTO PROTOCOL (CMP14) KATOWICE, POLAND 2ND TO 14TH DECEMBER 2018 2 Mr. President, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. P resident, on your election as the President of COP 24, and I am confident that you will lead this process in an open, transparent and inclusive manner. I also assure you of my delegation’s full cooperation and commitment in reaching a n agreed outco me in Ka towice. The fifth assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has confirmed that the climate system, including the atmosphere and the oceans, have warmed, and sea levels have risen. The report further indicates that li miting warming to 1.5oC is possible, provided immediate robust actions to reduce emissions are taken, and this should be done in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. We therefore urge Anne x I Parties to demonstrate leadership a nd raise their level of ambition to the scale req uired by science and equity. It is alarming to note that, as we become more aware of the intrinsic need to combat climate change, our actions are not commensurate with the essential level of commitment to th e objectives agreed under the Convention and the Paris Agreement. 3 Mr. President, At local level, we are experiencing extreme weather events, p rolonged droughts and frequent floods are normal feature s of our climat e in Lesotho. The recent intense drought of the year 2015/2016 and the current El Nino, are rude remin der that climate change is real. It is estimated that more than 300,000 people in Lesotho will face food shortage until April next year. Despite the chal lenges we face, L esotho is voluntarily implementing a number of initiatives to adapt and reduce greenho use gases. My country’s Nationally Determined Contributions and National Climate Change Policy, have outlined both adaptation and mi tigation actions, clearly in dicating o ur proposed efforts as a country to address these paramet ers in a balanced ma nner. However, the implementation of these initiatives requires both financial and technical resources. Lesotho therefore invites development partners to invest in these initiatives. In Pari s, the world laid down a blueprint of clear actions needed to address climat e change under the Paris Agreement. Here in Katowice, we must finalise the structure that will bring the spirit and vision of the Paris Agreement to li fe - achieving the 1.5°C temp erature goal and protecting communities across the world from the devastating impacts of clima te change. 4 The ‘Talanoa Dialogue’, inspired by the Pacific concept of constructive discussion, debate and story -telling, should con tinue here in Poland, to promote na tional climate actions needed to put the world on track to meet pre -2020 ambi tion and the long -term goals of the two -year old Paris Agreement. Mr. President, In conclusion, we need commitments and united efforts on the on-going means of implementation in the form of financial resources, technology transfer and capacity building, for the period bey ond 2020, to enable developing countries to implement their contributions. I thank you