NATIONAL STA TEMENT BY HIS EXC ELLEN CY DR. GEORGE MA NNEH WEAH PRESIDENT O F THE REPUBLIC O F LIBERIA AT THE 26TH UNITED NA TIONS CO NFERENCE O N CLIMA TE CHA NGE GLASGOW, SCO TLAND THE UNITED KING DOM NOVEMBER 1, 20211 Excellencies, Heads of State and G overnment; Her Excellency Madam Clar Marie W eah, First Lady of the Republic of Liberia; Your Excellency the Secretary General of the United Nations; The President of the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference; Heads of International O rganiz ations; Distinguished Ladies and G entlemen; : This year’s COP26 i s taking pl ace at a ti me w hen the w orld is having to l earn to l ive with the dev astating and di sruptive consequenc es of the deadl y Coronav irus pandemi c. Climate change, l ike CO VID-19, pres ents an ev en bi gger threat to the world and to our c ommon humani ty. We hav e therefore gathered here at thi s 26th United Nati ons Climate Change Conferenc e to seek common ac tion to s ave our planet, and bri ng equi ty and fai rness to how we achieve thes e objectives under the Pari s Accord on Cl imate Change. 2 Upon tak ing the l eaders hip of my country in 2018, one of the fi rst major steps that I took was to ens ure the rati fication of the Paris Agreement in that s ame y ear. Thi s was a demons tration of my Government’ s highes t political commi tment to ens ure that Li beria is among the c omity of nati ons working together i n addres sing the challenges of climate c hange. In June of thi s year, I c onvened a National Climate Change and Environment Conference to mobi lize my citizens and partners in working together to urgentl y addres s the c ritical issue of c limate change and env ironment. Li beria’s Revised Nationally Determined Contributions were pres ented and adopted at that Conferenc e, and hav e subsequentl y been s ubmi tted to the UN Climate Change Sec retari at. Your Ex cellencies, we welcome the U.S. G overnment bac k to the Paris Agreement, and urge s trong U.S. l eaders hip and commitment i n placing the w orld on a path to meeti ng our c limate change targets, and i n assuring fai rness and equi ty among advanced and dev eloping countri es.3 Liberia therefore l ooks forw ard to j oining and l eading in the U.S. Government’ s Conserve G lobal Forest / Carbon Sink Program, and to j oining similar programs launc hed by other adv anced nations. With the l arges t fores t cover of more than 43% i n the Equatori al Guinea rai nfores t, Liberia serves as a maj or hub for c arbon sequestration. Thi s natural endow ment i s a buffer not onl y for us, but the l arger w orld. We are a maj or part of the gl obal lungs which make it pos sible for the i ndus trial world to breath. It is our i ntenti on to mai ntain thes e fores ts in pri me c ondition, and that i s why we hav e outl ined i n our Revised Nationally Determined Contributions specific climate-res ilient and adaptati on meas ures that w e are determi ned to i mplement i n order to guarantee the w ellness of thes e global lungs.4 Since signing the Pari s Accord, Li beria has lived up to i ts promi se to reduc e defores tation from l ogging and ti mber produc tion and from agri culture. W e hav e expanded our protec ted fores ts, and we are prepared to protec t more fores ts and to i ntens ify our work with local communi ties to ex pand thei r opti ons for food and fuel in order to reduc e pres sure on fores t resources. However, is this high level of fores t conservation pay ing off for Liberia? EXCELLENCIES, DISTING UISHED LA DIES A ND G ENTLEMEN: We are al l aware that there i s an inherent i mbal ance in the c urrent architecture of c limate fi nanc ing. Countri es like Liberia, who maintain and protec t the l arges t remai ning trac ts of fores t reserves, receive the l owest benefi ts for thes e ecosystem services. We who are the ri ches t in terms of fores t resources and biodiversity, are the poores t in terms of socio-economi c development. 5 Although w e bear the brunt of the i mpac t of c limate c hange, w e benefi t the l east from the ex isting solutions and fi nanc ial arrangements currentl y in place for tac kling c limate c hange. In order to addres s this imbal ance, there needs to be a fundamental shift in the w ay we tac kle this mismatc h in climate investments today. I believe that one of the w ays that thi s can be done i s to es tablish an African Carbon Credit Trading M echanism. With your support, Li beria will be willing to hos t a conferenc e in the near future to ex plore the detai ls and structure of s uch an enti ty. We will work with pan-Afri can and other gl obal financial institutions to develop a l ong-term regul ated mark et for Afri can carbon c redit. I am c onvinced that thes e initiatives will increase the c hanc es for all African countries that depend on thei r fores t reserves to attai n sustainable economi c grow th and nati onal development i n line with the v ision s et out i n the 2030 Agenda.6 Excellencies, accessing climate fi nanc e is key for Li beria in order to ac hieve our rev ised climate c hange ambi tions. Even as we recognize the rol es of the v arious climate fi nanc ing mec hanisms such as the Green Climate Fund, G lobal Environment Facility, Adaptation Fund and many others, we mus t acknow ledge that there i s a huge gap i n climate i nvestments today. We therefore need to re-i magi ne w hat a s uccessful future l ooks like in climate financing, and thi s will requi re fundamental shifts in the w ay we think. Therefore, ev en as we intensify our ec osystem protec tion, w e are determi ned to j oin other fores ted c ountri es in Afri ca to ex pand resources available to us for ac hieving the Sus tainable Development G oals. Here at CO P 26, w e mus t find a s trategi c balance betw een mitigation and adaptati on on the one hand, and c ommi tment to climate fi nanc ing on the other hand. Dev eloped c ountries must trans late the pri nciple of l eaving no one behi nd into ac tion, through the mobi lization and s caling up of c apital flows for energy development and energy trans ition for the Afri can continent.7 We as global leaders mus t collectively adopt a new mindset of appropri ate and urgent ac tion in the fi ght agai nst climate c hange, that w ill fully addres s the three goal s of the Pari s Agreement: Mitigation, Adaptati on and Fi nanc e for a net-z ero carbon emi ssion by 2050. Together, w e can mak e a di fferenc e as a shared c ommuni ty of global citizens with a c ommon des tiny. Together w e can heal the world from the s courges of climate c hange. Together, w e can save thi s earth from the deadl y consequenc es of gl obal warming. Together, w e can bri ng humank ind into harmony with nature. I thank you.