STATEMENT BY NATHANIEL T. BLAMA, SR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & HEAD OF DELEGATION ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF LIBERIA AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF COP 24 December 13, 2018 Mr. President Excellenc ies Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen I congratulate you and the Government of Poland on your election as President of COP 24. I also wish to thank the Government and People of Poland for the hospitality extended to my delegation since our arrival in Katowice, Poland. 2 Under your leadership we envisage that the rule book on the implementation of the Paris Agreement will be concluded taking into consideration the needs and special circumstances of developing country parties and those th at are vulnerable to the adverse effect of climate change. Liberia wishes to register its support of the statements made by Egypt on behalf of the G77 and China and the African Group, as well as Ethiopia on behalf of the Least Developed Countries, and the Maldives on behalf of SIDS. Excellencies, we have been here for almost two weeks deliberating on the future of the global climate. We have been con cerned with protecting the earth from imminent danger s that have the potential to threaten global human development and exacerbat e poverty. The findings of recent IPCC Report are welcomed, drawing conclusions on the potential impact of global warming of 1.50C above preindustrial levels. This Report identified impacts on natural and human systems which will make long-lasting or irreversible loss for some ecosystems. Excellences, may I inform you that my country continues to experience climate hazards and the consequences of climate change. Examples such as coastal erosion, flooding, frequent tropical storms, disruption of the agricultur al system, and the outbreak of water vector borne diseases come to mind. Some of these impacts are causing loss of life for our people, destruction of infrastructures, and displacement of communities, thereby undermining my government’s national development plan (the Pro Poor Agenda for Prosperity and Development ). Climate change is compo unding our existing socio -economic challenges – it has not spared the subsistence farming communities or urbanized coastal populations. Poverty, poor infrastructure and limited access to finance continue to hamper our ability to improve the lives of our citizens in an environment vulnerable to the impending effects of climate change. Excellencies, I am pleased to inform you that, along with the Pro Poor Agenda for Prosperity and Development, Liberia launched her National Climate Change Policy and Response Strategy this year. The Policy intends to address climate change in a holistic manner, taking into consideration the key climate sensitive sectors of the country. It is anchor ed in adaptation, mitigation, capacity building and technology transfer. In response to th is Policy, my Government is engaged at the moment in tackling coastal erosion in one of our coastal communities in order to minimize the threat to the people and of New Kru Town. We anticipate that, at the end of this adaptation intervention, we will be able to reclaim some land 3 area, thereby reducing the imminent threat of coastal erosion. The Policy also identifie s the need for financial support to achieve more medium - and long -terms projects. Further to our adaptation agenda, I am pleased to report that Liberia is at the moment developing her National Adaptation Plan. We anticipate the completion of our NAP at the end of 2019. In this light, Liberia calls on developed countries to provide support in the implementation of the NAP so that we can address medium - and long -term adaptation action in the country. In the coming m onths, we also intend to revise our N ationally Determined Contribution to reflect current realities in order to strengthen our NDC in line with a 1.50C pathway. At COP24, Liberia is amongst the newest members of the NDC Partnership and hopes to make good use of these resource s to realize our plan for the NDC. Excellencies, the NDC s are critical for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. It is in this light that my delegation and I envisage that this meeting in Katowice will deliver guidance on the mod alities, formulation, and implementation of the NDCs such that Liberia, with the rest of the world, can make progress. On technology, m y country has embarked on the Technology Needs Assessment (TNA) among Least Developed Countries. This is under the third phase of the TNA Project. Upon the completion of our TNA, we will be able to identify appropriate technology that will be critical to our development agenda. Despite the measures like these that Liberia and other African nations are taking, c limate change continues to have a devastating effect on our communit ies causing loss of life and damage to infrast ructures. It has become glaring that more finance will be need ed to address the issue of loss and damage. In this light, I call for the full integrat ion of loss and damage in the Paris Rulebook, which should take into consideration transparency, capacity building and the global stock take. Excellencies, may I take this time to thank those countries that have contributed over the years to the Climate Fi nance Mechanism (Global Environment Facility, Green Climate Fund and Least Developed Countries Fund ). Over the years, Liberia has benefitted from these mechanism s to address critical environmental and climate change related problems. I want to take this t ime to call on those parties who are in the position to contribute to the replenishment of these Funds to do so. A delay in the replenishment period will exacerbate the vulnerability those countries – 4 including mine – that are suffering from the severe con sequences of climate change. I also support the statements made by parties calling for the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris Agreement. The coming into force of the implementation of the Paris Agreement in 2020 will require a global effort of working to gether to reverse the impacts of climate change. It will be the time not to talk the talk, but to walk the talk. This is why my delegation and I envisage a balanced outcome from Katowice that will be favorable to all. We want to reaffirm our commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement. I Thank You All.