OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENT OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF LIECHTENSTEI N National Statement Principality of Liechtenstein Mr Stefan Hassler Director of the Office of Environment COP27 15 November 202 2 Sharm El -Sheikh, Egypt - Check against delivery - 2 Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates Ladies and Gentlemen I would like to express my gratitude to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt for their huge efforts to welcome all of us in Sharm El-Sheikh. My grati- tude also goes to the UNFCCC. This year´s COP is taking place in an extremely challenging international environment marked by conflicts and crises, including for climate policy. Liechtenstein deems it of utmost importance to ensure that international processes remain operationa l and that multilateralism retains its core function in addressing these challenges. Let me continue by emphasizing that we need a concrete and positive outcome of the COP27. Failing is not an option, it’s a matter of survival. Liechtenstein’s focus is therefore on keeping the goal of limiting global warm- ing to 1.5°C alive. Liechtenstein aims to be climate neutral by 2050 and urge s all States to join in on working towards ambitious targets. We expect from this COP 27 the announcement and further implementation of various mitigation related initiatives. And we urge all parties to phasing out of unabated coal power. Liechtenstein is a vivid example that the decoupling of economic growth and emissions reductions is possible. Extreme weather events painfully demonstrate the adverse impact of global warming. We feel for those, who have lost family and friends, those who had to flee their homes because of climate induced famine. Those that lost their lives 3 in the floods. Empathy does not suffice. We must show solidarity, also in finan- cial terms. Liechtenstein contributes around ten percent of its annual Interna- tional Humanitarian Cooperation and Development aid to climate finance, fo- cussing both on mitigation actions and adaptation to climate change. This constitutes around USD 70 per capita in voluntary climate finance. You may think it’s a drop in the ocean. But many drops make an ocean. We need to mobilize each and every one. Every contribution counts. Liechtenstein therefore is a strong advocate for broadening the donor base of international climate finance. We must mobilize every citizen, every company, every founda- tion, every elderly and youth to support the climate cause. It takes all of us. We want to be convener s and catalyst s. We want to connect science with pol- icy and engineering. We must listen to science and the IPCC in particular. Listen to the youth. Listen to women and girls and act upon their request s. Be- cause they care and galvanized the climate change debate in an unprecedented way. The “zeitgeist” for change is becoming more and more tangible, and this is the case in many parts of the world. Let’s get off of the highway to climate hell, as per the plea of the Secretary General. Thank you for your attention.