UNFCCC COP24 Katowice Climate Change Conference The high -level segment, 11 December, 2018 NATIONAL STATEMENT BY LITHUANIA Mr. President, Excellences, dear Ladies and Gentlemen,  First of all, I would like to thank the COP 24 Presidency for a n exceptional organizational work and a warm welcome here in Katowice.  Today our responsibility lies on the urgent action needed to combat dangerous effects of climate change and ensur e global transition to low carbon innovative, climate resilient economies and societies, in line with the Sustainable Development Goals and long -term goals of the Paris Agreement.  Such transformation requires global cooperation and major political decisions in all contributing sectors such as energy, transport, agriculture and waste. For this reason Lithuania support s initiatives of the COP24 Presidency and join s all three declarations: Silesia Declaration on Solidarity and Just Tran sition, Katowice Partnership for E -mobility and Declaration on Forests for the Climate.  Lithuania is seeking ambitious transformation of the energy sector by setting a target to double a share of renewable energy in the final energy consumption by 2030. We are also improv ing energy efficiency by invest ing in to the renovation of public and multi -apartment buildings and sustainable mobility.  This year, Lithuania has voluntarily doubled its climate finance to developing countries. We will mobilize 1 million euros for climate financing from public and private sources annually by 2020. We have introduced Lithuanian renewable energy technologies and encouraged the use of public funding to mobilize private sector investments through the bilateral cooperation projects in developing countries.  We face a lot of challenges, but we also see prospects for creating new businesses opportunities and green jobs, increasing sectoral competitiveness while at the same time improv ing safety, health and quality of citizens’ life. Therefore, Lithuania is updating its National Long-term Climate Change Strategy and develop ing a Plan for Implement ation of Climate and Energy Targets by 2030.  IPCC Special Report, which concludes that the commitments of the parties are not sufficient to achieve the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement, is a strong signal to make additional global efforts to ensure the implementation of the Paris Agreement. That is why it is very important for all countries to be ambitious and to act together globally to succeed in fighting climate change.