23th session of the C onference of the Parties (COP 23 ) to the UNFCCC, the 13th session of the meeting of the Parti es to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP 13) and 1 -2 Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA1.2) (Bonn, Germany, 6-17 November 2017 ) Stateme nt of the Minister of Environment of the Republic of Lithuania Mr. President, Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, The increasing intensity and frequency of extreme weather events and their damage clearly emphasize that transform ing the Paris Agreement int o concrete action is vital for the security and prosperity of the whole planet. Today, with appreciation for the hospitality of German Government, I would like to express my full support to the first small island Fijian Presidency, for the ir leadership and initiatives to develop draft decisions for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. In order to achieve goals of the Paris Agreement, the most important priority for all countries is successful implementation of ambitious and legally binding greenhous e gas e missions reduction commitments. Shifting towards low carbon economic transformation, it is of key importance that greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets are translated into concrete policies in all sectors and that all authorities – national and local, as well as non-state actors, contribute to their implementation. Lithuania, together with other members of the European Union, has taken a joint commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at least 40 percent by 2030. We are going to fulfil it by implement ing the EU climate and energy policy. Lithuania’s experience proves that there is no contradiction between economic growth and environment al protection. Lithuania has three million inhabitants and is responsible for an insignificant part – less than 0.04 percent – of global greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, our emission levels in the last 25 years have fallen by almost 60 percent, while our GDP has increased by 30 percent, clearly demonstrating that economic growth can be decoupled from the increase of emissions. In 2015 Lithuania used almost 26 percent of renewables in final energy consumption. The National Energy S trategy foresees i ncrease d use of renewables up to 45 percent in 2030 and up to 80 percent in 2050. We are improving energy eff iciency by implement ing ambitious modernization program s for multi -apartment and public buildings. We also plan to reduce the use of fossil fuel vehicles in cities by half till 2030 and to ban them in 2050. Lithuania is voluntarily increasing climate finan cing to developing countries under bilateral cooperation projects by transferring technologies and using public financ es to mobiliz e private sector investments. We recognize achievements of the Bonn conference in some issues, but we need to accelerate work towards substantial progress in all issues related to the Paris work program, allowing adopting decisions in Katowice COP24 next year. Collaborative actions of stakeholders through the Global Climate Action Agenda provid e a solid basis to move to a low -emission, climate -resilient global economy. In order to guarantee that commitments are fully respected, robust accou ntability and transparency guidelines under the Paris Agreement have to be developed. We need to prepare for the 2018 facilit ative dialogue an d global stocktake process to review our collective efforts towards the goals of long-term mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation. Mr Chair, dear colleagues, the only way to guarantee our safe future is to take efficient global actions implemen ting Paris A greement. Thank you for your attention !