27th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 27) to the UNFCCC, the 1 7th session of the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP1 7) and 4th Meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA 4), 57th session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI57) and 57th session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA 57) (Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt, 6 -18 November 2022) Statement of the Vice Minister of Environment of the Republic of Lithuania Mr. President, Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a great pleasure for me to address you at this COP27. It is of the utmost importance to identify and admit globally that human society is facing a climate crisis and we must challenge it in this critical decade. Achieving the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement requires increased global commitments by all countries. All countries must shift towards a climate -neutral economy as soon as possible. Lithuania, together with the EU and its Member States, is aimed to reduce EU emissions by at least 55 % by 2030 and to achieve climate neutrality at the latest by 2 050. Last year Lithuania adopted the Climate Change Management Agenda, which sets out ambitious short, medium and long -term climate mitigation and adaptation targets across all sectors of our economy. We have managed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 58 percent and aim to reach 70 percent reduction by 2030. Today Lithuania use s more than a quarter of its energy from renewables and will increase the share to 80 percent by 2050. We are improving energy efficiency by implementing Long -term modernization programme for apartment s and public buildings. The unprecedented energy crisis, caused by Russia’s war against Ukraine, creates additional motivation for green transition. Lithuan ia has no plans of backsliding, moreover we recently adopted the Renewable Energy Breakthrough Package to accelerate solar and wind energy projects. The development of our first offshore wind park will help us to become self -sufficient in electricity in the next decade. Promotion of innovative tech nologies and i mproved international cooperation are key for the fighting of global climate crisis. Therefore, in COP27 Lithuania is joining the Global climate action agenda initiatives, that are essential to ensure net zero economy development, climate resilience and sustainability for our cities while every citizen remains protected by early warning systems. Current Russian war against Ukraine causes massive loss of life and injury and violates international human right s. This war also causes long - term environmental degradation, poses risk to nuclear safety and food security, delays the green energy transition and the much -needed action s on climate change, and reduces resources for the mobilization of climate financ e. This is the reason why Lithuania encourage s the international community urgently and decisively to condemn the Russian aggression and express solidarity by joining Ukraine’s initiatives regarding the Global Platform for the Assessment of Climate and Environmental Damage from Military Actions as well as regarding the Green Grain Supply Routes. Mr. Chair, dear colleagues, the only way to guarantee our safe future is efficient global actions. Thank you for your attention.