Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Malaysia would like to congratulate the Kingdom of Morocco on their highly effective Presidency of the 22nd COP to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and to thank them for the excellent arrangements and hospitality rendered to Malaysia and all delegates in this beautiful city of Marrakech. Malaysia also takes this opportunity thank the French presidency on their leadership and commitment that led to the adoption of the Paris Agreement on 12 December 2015. Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Recognising the urgency of the tasks at hand and to underscore Malaysia's commitment in realising our collective climate targets, we have completed domestic arrangements to ratify the Paris Agreement on the 4th November 2016 and have sent our instrument of ratification to the UN Headquarters in New York. Our mandate here in Morocco and in the meetings to come is to agree and finalize the modalities, procedures and guidelines for the implementation of the Paris Agreement in accordance with the finely balanced outcome that was achieved there. As such, Malaysia believes that being committed to the Paris Agreement, and the Convention that underpins it, requires that the modalities, procedures and guidelines of the Paris Agreement embody the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities. It is no surprise, therefore, that the Paris Agreement unequivocally affirms the central tenets of the Convention, notably the continued responsibility of developed countries to take the lead in reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions and to provide the means of implementation to developing countries for the implementation of mitigation and adaptation activities. Clear and ambitious leadership by developed countries, including in the pre-2020 period will build confidence and set the stage for the much-needed ramping up of actions. Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Malaysia remains committed in pursuing our climate objectives through the implementation of the sustainable development goals. One of our core strengths is in the area of forest and sustainable forest management. Our forest management records date back to 1905 including the Matang Mangrove Forest Reserve. Today this site has been acknowledged as one of the best managed mangrove forest in the world. We have continued to improve our forest management, implementing the Malaysian Criteria and Indicators for Sustainable Forest Management for Forest Certification in 2005. I would like to highlight that Malaysia's forest cover to date stands at 54.5 per cent. We continue to reaffirm our commitment to maintain at least 50% of our land areas as forest and tree cover. Malaysia is also committed to Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation and promoting the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries, in short, REDD+. We submitted the Forest Reference Level in 2014 and the Results-based actions early this year, and we subsequently presented our Summary Information on REDD+ Safeguards to the UNFCCC Secretariat on 14 November 2016. Malaysia has an ambitious REDD+ Strategy to address the holistic forest management requirement, and looks forward to accessing the international finance and support required for its successful implementation. Extreme weather events are already taking a toll on the sustainable development gains achieved by Malaysia. Malaysia experienced one of its worst floods in 2014 that devastated entire settlements in several states in Malaysia. Losses were estimated at Malaysian Ringgit 1 billion or approximately US$250 million and affected 2 million people. In this regard, Malaysia remains concerned about the impact of climate change on agriculture and food security. Malaysia believes in maintaining a balance between natural area conservation, food security and sustainable development. This balance can be achieved through adequate adaptation. Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Malaysia welcomes the decision that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement, and urges developed country Parties, in line with their obligations under the Paris Agreement to accelerate and scale up the provision of financial, technological and capacity support for adaptation. Malaysia also urges developed country Parties to scale up financing through the Green Climate Fund and to work constructively with developing countries to expedite the development of simplified guidelines and processes for accessing these funds. In conclusion, Malaysia would once again like to congratulate the Kingdom of Morocco and the UNFCCC Secretariat on the excellent arrangements and for the inclusive and transparent organization of the meetings during this COP. Malaysia would like to assure you of our continued commitment to work constructively towards finalizing the Modalities, Procedures and Guidelines of the Paris Agreement under the Convention to ensure a bright and more sustainable future for all humanity. Thank you.