GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI NATIONAL STATEMENT BY HONOURABLE BINTONY KUTSAIRA, M.P., MINISTER FOR NATURAL RESOURCES, ENERGY AND MINING (LEADER OF DELEGATION) DELIVERED AT THE 25TH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATION S FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE MADRID, SPAIN, 10TH DECEMBER 2019 2 ➢ Madam President, ➢ Your Excellencies, ➢ Distinguished Delegates, ➢ Ladies and Gentlemen. On behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, my delegation and I wish to congratu late Chile and Spain for the wonderful organization of the Conference here in Madrid. Madam President, Malawi would like to subscribe and associate itself with the statements made by the Chairs of the Group of 77 and China, the African Group as well a s the Least Developed Countries. Allow me also to join my fellow Ministers and Heads of Delegation, who have spoken before me, in affirming that the impacts of climate change, are having real consequences on people’s lives and liv elihoods. It is therefore m y 3 expectation that COP25, being held here in Madrid, will provide the critical momentum, for urgent and immediate action t o combat this climate emergency. Madam President, in March this year, some parts of Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe were hit with heav y rains, which caused floods, due to Tropical Cyclone Idai. In Malawi alone, 975,000 people were affected, 87,000 people were internally displaced, 60 people lost their lives and 672 people were injured. Damage and losses on account of the floods were estimated at two hundred million United S tates dollars (USD 200,000,000) while three hundred seventy million United States dollars (USD 370,000,000) is required for recovery and reconstruction. This is climate injustice. Madam President, key economic sectors o f our country are being adversely affected by climate change. These include: generation 4 and supply of hydropower ; agricultural production ; and e cosystems resilience ; to mention a few. There is resurgence of human and agricultural pests and diseases. The Country is losing her long and hard -earned infrastructure, development and economic gains. This is not justified, considering, that Malawi’s greenhouse gas emissions stand only at about 0.07 metric tons per person, a very low figure at the international sc ale. Madam President, at the Heads of State and Government Summit Roundtable discussion s. our Heads of State and Government, including my State President His Excellency Professor Arthur Peter Mutharika, provided the political direction on how we can forge ahead, to raise climate action and ambition. The y highlighted the need for ambitious targets, as we revise our Nationally Determined Contributions; the need to scale up climate finance, particula rly from 5 international public sources ; as well as provision of affordable and relevant technology, and capacity building. Madam President, to achieve our vision for climate change management, we urgently require predictable, adequate and accessible means of implementation, including financial, technological, and cap acity building support. We therefore call upon developed countries to raise their ambition in the mobilization, and provision of these resources, using the 100 billion United S tates dollars a year by 2020 as a floor. We call for extension of the discussion on long -term finance to go beyond the year 2020. Malawi also urges our develop ed nation partners, to accelerate their carbon -reduction efforts and to strengthen national pledges, including achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. I thank you all for your at tention.