GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI STATEMENT BY DR YANIRA MSEKA NTUPANYAMA PRINCIPAL SECRETARY MINISTR Y OF NATURAL RESOURCES, ENERGY AND MINING (LEADER OF DELEGATION) AT THE 2 3RD SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE BONN, GERMANY, 16TH NOVEMBER 2017 2  COP. 23 /CMP.1 3/CMA.1.2 President, His Excellency Mr. Frank Bainimaram, Prime Minister of Fiji,  The Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, Ms. Patricia Esp inosa,  Your Excellencies, Ministers and Heads of Delegations,  Distinguished Delegates,  Ladies and Gentlemen. On behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, I wish to congratulate Your Excellency Mr. Frank Bainimaram, Prime Minister of Fiji, on your election as President of the 2 3rd Conference of Parties, the 1 3th Conference of Parties also serving as Meeting of Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, and the second part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA 1.2). I wish you unlimited success and outstanding achievements in these very challenging times. Mr. President, Malawi would like to concur and associate itself with the statements made by the Chairs of the Group of 77 and China, the African Group as well as the Least Developed Countries. These groups have made it clear that the world is justifiably waiting for our decisions with a high degree of impatience, on th e modalities, procedures and guidelines for the effective implementation of all elements in the Paris Agreement, which we adopted in Paris in December 2015. It is now time for action. 3 Malawi looks forward with great anticipation, to th is Conference adopting decisions and outcomes, in particular on financing for adaptation, mitigation, capacity building, technology transfer, loss and damage and implementation of Nati onally Determined Contributions. The horrific impacts of climate change are continuously and adversely affecting the poorest and most vulnerabl e. In our least developed economies, women, the youth and disadvantaged groups stand among the most affected. Some p eople are dying and some are left homeless. Livelihoods are threatened and affected. Generation and supply of renewable energy is being disrupted. Agricultural production is hampered. There is resurgence of human and agricultural pests and diseases. Countries are l osing their long and hard -earned infrastructure and economic gains. Mr. President, Malawi was amongst the countries in Southern Africa that was worst affected by the El Niño induced - drought in 2016, with 36% of the population requiring food relief. As such, a food Insecurity Response Plan amounting to US$380 million was prepared to provide assistance to the affected population. This year, 2017, the country’s real gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate, which was initially estimated at 5.6%, has been revised downwards to 4.4%, on account of floods and droughts that are predicted to worsen with climate change. 4 Despite our insignificant contribution to global warming, at only 0.07 % of the global total green house gas emissions, and limited capacities and resources, w e have not remained idle. Government of Malawi has developed INDCs, NAMAs, NAPAs, a Climate Change Investment Plan, a National Resilience Strategy, a National Forest Landscape Restoration Strategy and formulated the first ever Climate Change Management Policy in 2016 in order to advance climate change action. In addition to these, the country is implementing NDC -based renewable energy activities though with very limited financial, technical expertise and technology. We believe that we cannot achieve our national aspirations and global vision on climate change if we do not receive adequate, predictable and sustainable support in terms of finance, technology and capacity building. Such support is necessary to assist vulnerable communities to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change, as well as support the restoration of degraded ecosystems, water catchments and forest landscapes. It is therefore critical that developed country Parties should take the lead and show their commitment to enhancing implementation of the Convention by signing the Doha Amendments, taking more ambitious emission cuts to achieve the 1.5oC target, as well as provid e climate finance 5 for developing countries like Malawi to implement interventions that will increase resilience to climate change. Mr President, Your Excellencies, Honourable Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you all for listening.