HIGH LEVEL STATEMENT 22nd CONFERENCE OF PARTIES Marrakech November 2016 Mr. President, Congratulations on your assumption of the Presidency. I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States, a coalition of 44 small island, low-lying, and coastal nations most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. We fully align with the statement made by Kingdom of Thialand on behalf of G77 and China At the outset, let me express our gratitude for the warm hospitality extended to us by the Government and people of Morocco and for the extraordinary effort you and your team have made to make this COP a success. We welcome your Marrakech Action Proclamation, which demonstrates our collective will and political determination to address climate change. Mr. President, COP 22 is indeed expected to move this process from negotiations to action. But the fact is: the time remaining to take meaningful climate action is growing vanishingly small, particularly for small island states whose very existence is threatened by powerful storms, poisoned oceans, and rising seas. And now politics has entered the discussion in a way that has again put our ultimate success in doubt. Indeed, we can understand the concern and frustration expressed by so many here and around the world that worry what the future may hold. For too long, this process has let down the vulnerable and the young—the very people who are least responsible for creating the climate crisis that threatens civilization, as we know it. We sympathise with their anger because so far we have failed to address a problem that has so many clear solutions. But I have words of hope because I truly believe we are at a place in history that bodes well for continued progress in this struggle. Last year, for the first time, renewable energy surpassed fossil fuels in electricity generation. Last week, our host country unveiled the construction of one of the world's biggest solar power plants on the edge of the Sahara that will bring low-cost electricity to remote rural homes. This energy transformation was underway before the world adopted the Paris Agreement, but that historic occasion, which was followed in record time by the ratification an d entry into force of the agreement illustrates the unprecedented political support for climate action and an irreversible march to a clean energy economy. But as strong as both of these political and market forces are, it still remains to be seen whether we will act boldly enough and quickly enough to avert the worst impacts of climate change. Those of us from small islands have already seen the kind of devastation that attends just one-degree of globing warming above the pre-industrial average. Last year alone witnessed some of the strongest and most destructive cyclones to ever to make landfall. So we can be certain that the 1.5-degree temperature goal agreed in Paris is the right one and we must seize every opportunity to accelerate the transition to renewables at every step, making the Facilitated Dialogue in 2018 more crucial than ever. The promise of climate action—to create opportunity and protect our shores—will be out of reach, however, unless the international community lives up to its commitment to fully mobilise at least $100 billion a year by 2020 as affirmed in Paris. The realities of climate change demand that these resources be new and additional and for adaptation support to be supported by public financing. At the UNFCCC, it will also be critical to continue to support the full and effective participation of SIDS that have been done so much to bring us this far, and not limit support to a per capita basis that is an inadequate measure of capacity. We know now that there are impacts that go beyond or ability to adapt, however, so we were pleased with the adoption of the draft decision on the Excom’s report to the COP for Loss and Damage, which sets the stage for a five-year workplan and further improvements under the CMA. Mr. President, We welcome the Paris Agreement and its rapid entry into force. The agreement’s goals are ambitious and its inclusive nature—guided by the principle of common but differentiated responsibility and respective capabilities in light of different national circumstances—bode well for its rapid implementation. We look forward to joining with all countries in completing this task. I believe we will be successful. Thank you.