Republic of the Marshall Islands HLE. Ms. Hilda Heine, Ed. D, President, Republic of the Marshall Islands Statement at the High Level Segment of the 224 Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Marrakesh, Morocco 15 November 2016 check against delivery Mr. Secretary-General, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, I bring the warm greetings of Yokwe from the Republic of the Marshall Islands. We are all here in Marrakech not just to celebrate the entry into force of the Paris Agreement - although that is a remarkable achievement - but more importantly, to jumpstart its implementation. The urgency of climate impacts demands no less than to continue our political will at the front of the global agenda, no matter how uncertain that may seem at time. That is why, like so many others, the Marshall Islands ratified the Paris Agreement - it holds out the strong expectation that the world will not fail to do more, and to do more quickly. If we do not peak global emissions by 2020 and keep global temperature increases within 1.5 degrees Celsius the survival of my island home is at stake. We expect the continued leadership and engagement from all who led the way to Paris, including the United States. To achieve this ambition means fully implementing the Paris Agreement and the promises made by all countries — and going further. We also urge a robust system to measure and verify our respective progress on national emissions commitments. And we must ensure the global stocktake, the 2018 Facilitative Dialogue and and other ambition cycles are more than paper outcomes, but serve to expand our political creativity to phase out harmful emissions within our lifetime. We urge every country to come forward with new targets by 2020 and to continue cooperation to achieve ambitious climate action in all sectors - HFCs, as well as aviation and maritime emissions. All of these outcomes now before us are necessary to build confidence within this international regime. But these walls cannot be the limit of global climate action. Let's not lose sight of where the hardest work must be done to achieve our Paris promise. The tough policy choices we must all make in our capitals will truly define us. All of us - rich and poor, small and large - must build for a different future, and never fail to strive for the highest reaches of ambition to capture low- carbon pathways and boost resilient infrastructure. The most vulnerable will need partnership to match our aspirations. It is vital that our closest partners and the international system do far more than assume the cards will somehow fall into place to help us. We must all work towards simplified and enhanced access to means of implementation to ensure that no one is left behind. To make the Paris Agreement a true reality for the most vulnerable nations demands that all actors work closely in the context of our unique national circumstances, to define pathways and partnerships on our own terms, and within our structures, that deliver visible results to those facing the greatest risks. In addition, the UN should afford greater commitment to ensuring Taiwan's fundamental right to participate in mechanisms, meetings and activities of UN specialized agencies and the UNFCCC. Today I am here for our youth. The future of the low-lying Marshall Islands, the future of all small island states, and the most vulnerable, rests closely upon our global commitment to turn words into action. The future of the world's youngest generations is still far from certain. And so we will never pause, for even a moment, to push to ensure that the promises of the Paris Agreement become its realities. Doing so will require working with coalitions and partners to upscale the very same political drive which has now moved the ball on climate change, and that is no small task. I owe my children, and my grandchildren, no less than delivering the future they deserve. Thank you and kommo! tata.