Statement by: The Honorable Bruce Bilimon Minister of Health and Human Services of the Republic of the Marshall Islands National Statement at COP26, Glasgow, United Kingdom 09 September 2021 Mr. President, Your Excellencies, Honorable Ladies and Gentleman. I bring you warm greetings & “Iakwe” from the Republic of the Marshall Islands. I am speaking to you as a representative of a country under siege from the onslaught of climate change. It is already upon us today; it threatens to overtake us in the near future. The storm of the climate catastrophe is gathering destructive power with every failed promise and missed target. If there were ever a moment for bold and committed leadership - it is now and here in Glasgow. Mr. President, We cannot delay adapting to the changing climate any longer. No country will avoid its effects and many countries will suffer irreparable damage. We must not only stay within the 1.5 degrees Celsius limit in order to survive, but prepare to survive the impacts asso ciated with this increase. Some of us must act with a greater urgency and consider more extreme measures than others. As a low -lying atoll nation, we know that physical responses, like reclaiming land and building seawalls, will take the cost of adaptation into the billions of dollars - and will likely still not be enough to protect our country. If king tide storms and extreme weather events contin ue to ravage our shores, sea level continues to rise, and as oceans continue to warm and become more acidic, bleaching and destroying our coral that represents our nation's very foundation, we will be left with limited options. As atoll nations, the fail ure of others to do what is necessary to tackle climate change forces us to grapple with extreme and existential challenges. We will never accept that anthropogenic climate change - which we did not cause – be the basis for a loss of our sovereignty, our s overeign rights, or our maritime boundaries. We will preserve our nation and our culture against any and all 2 challenges that we face. The Marshall Islands need the support of developed countries in this critical undertaking, particularly those that have co ntributed the most to this crisis. Therefore, we must use COP26 to generate real change in how we address adaptation. We must provide the scientific and financial focus it demands. The Marshall Islands therefore call on all donor nations and multilatera l development partners to address the extremely wide gap that currently exists between mitigation and adaptation funding, and to ultimately achieve a fifty -fifty split between them. As a first step, a commitment to at least doubling of adaptation financing from current levels is essential. And we must form a strong foundation to ignite a step -change on adaptation movement. Further developing the science on adaptation, and establishing an accurate understanding of the resources required to address it. The I PCC Special Report on 1.5 gave us a firm basis for the target agreed in Paris, and a similar analysis on adaptation is needed. The science is clear that this is the critical decade for keeping 1.5 in check. We must cut emissions in half by 2030 to make this possible and to stay on track. We must all re -commit to this target and take urgent action to deliver it. G20 leaders: your countries make up 80% of global emissions. The world is watching and we, the vulnerable nations of this world, urgently call you to take action reflecting ambition in enhanced NDCs and long -term strategies that align with a 1.5 pathway. All nations must demonstrate their ambition for this by urgently updating their NDCs to ensure alignment to this 1.5 survival figure. In Paris, we agreed that countries would be welcomed to submit NDCs at any time. Again, if there is ever a time in which we must act upo n this opportunity to increase ambition, to demonstrate this commitment, it is now. We must come back to the table at COP27 with 1.5 aligned NDCs, and keep coming back to the table until we are on a track. COP26 here in Glasgow has the power to accelerat e an unprecedented shift in the global economy to a post -carbon, and green future. It is already underway, though far too slowly. We must put an end to the worst offenders. Coal and super -pollutants must go. We must put an end to fossil fuel subsidies; we should not pay for our own destruction. Nonetheless during this COP, and over the past few months, we’ve heard encouraging sentiments from respective leaders of the world on the path for collective fight against climate change. Critical transport sec tors like aviation and shipping keep the global economy moving however, left unchecked, will also spell global destruction. We must reach zero emissions by 2050 in maritime shipping, and implement a carbon levy to meet that target in a way that not only ca talyzes 3 innovation, but also provides crucial resources for the vulnerable. We welcome new opportunities that support sustainable ocean -based economies and large scale marine protected areas. Mr. President We will not see a safe and secure future that le aves no one behind without resources. The delivery of the $100 billion is vital. And as we initiate discussions on a post -2025 finance goal, we must ensure that we base these discussions on an accurate assessment of needs, and - as always, at the heart of our work - the science. The Paris Agreement Rulebook must be completed in a way that puts ambition and environmental integrity at its core. Article 6 is a critical tool for driving de -carbonization and has the potential to provide a predictable funding stream for adaptation. But the wrong system will set us further back than we can afford. Mr. President, We urge fellow Parties to honor and respect their obligations to futur e generations - to commit to the Kwon Gesh climate pledge, and to involve you th in the self –determined decisions that will shape their future. The climate crisis will affect us all, but some remain excluded from these discussions. The Republic of the Marshall Islands supports Taiwan’s inclusion in the UN system, and their full involvement in these discussions that shape their citizens’ lives as much as our own. At COP25 in Madrid, we committed to using our newly -secured seat at the Human Rights Council to advance climate justice, and we are proud to play a role in instituting a Special Rapporteur on Climate Change at the Human Rights Council, established at the most recent session. Mr. President, We convene the High Ambition Coalition, and stand ready to support progress at this COP. It is clear that ambition, this year, is n ot limited to one element of the Paris Agreement, but rather on a package of outcomes on mitigation, adaptation and finance. The demands, here in Glasgow, are highly ambitious and difficult. Nevertheless, let us come together to meet them - - for the sake of our collective future and for the sake of HUMANITY! Kommol tata & I thank you!