0 24th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ADDRESS BY H.E Assoc. Prof. Kheswar Jankee Ambassador of Mauritius to the Federal Republic of Germany Republic of Mauritius KATOWICE, POLAND 12 December 2018 1 Mr. President, Excellencies The Republic of Mauritius associate s itself with the statements delivered by the distinguished representative of the Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf of the ‘Group 77 and China’, by distinguished repre sentative of the Republic of Gabon on behalf of the ‘ Africa Group’ and by the distinguished representative of the Maldives on behalf of the ‘ Alliance of Small Island States’. Allow me, at the very outset, to congratulate His Excellency Michal Kurtyka, State Secretar y at the Ministry of Energy of Poland, for his election as President of the COP2 4. I wish to take this opportunity to place on record our heartfelt thanks to the government and people of Poland for their warm hospitality. Mr. President, In 20 15, we were all so delighted and motivated with the historic breakthrough of the Paris Agreement. It brought us glimpse s of hope for a collective movement to save our unique planet, the mother earth. However, we must concede that, 3 years down the line, the progr ess a chieved this far is largely inadequate. The climatic events observed around the planet are worsening and becoming apocalyptic. The latest climate indicators are appalling too. We are in a run of 3 warmest years on records from 2015 to 2017, wh ile 2018 is projected to 2 queue up as the 4th warmest year on record in what would be an unprecedented run of global warming era. The recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) special report on global warming 1.5 degree Celsius has confirmed the call w e have been making over the past decade s. I quote: ‘Climate -related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security and economic growth are projected to worsen with global warming of 1.5 degree Celsius,’ end of quote. The same rep ort further highlighted that the 1.5 degree Celsius threshold could be reached in only a dozen years from now. Mr. President, Besides the ranking attributed to Mauritius in the 2018 ’s World Risk Report, climate indicators at the national leve l are all showing signs of aggravation. Some of the values even exceed the global averages. Air temperature has risen by up to 1.2 degree Celsius ; the sea level is rising at an accelerated rate of 5.6 mm per year while a reduction of 8% in the annual preci pitation also been observed over the last 50 years. Our beaches, which is a major pillar of our economy, is suffering from serious beach erosion in some areas by up to 20 metres over the decade. High intensity short duration rainfall events resulting in f lash floods are becoming more and more frequent. 3 Furthermore, earlier in 2018 records of precipitations for month s of January, March and April exceeded the Long Term Mean value for the same months by 296%, 120% and 186% respectively. This has resulted in over 200 f looded areas and as a result f inancial support was provided to around 4,000 fa milies involving 15,000 persons. Nearly USD 1.4 M has been disbursed as allowances to support affected people. Besides frequent flash floods eve nts, Mauriti us is being seriously affecte d by storm surges. In early 2018, part of the Port ’s area was closed for business for nearly 20 days due to storm surges. The projections made for Mauritius are even bleaker. Accor ding to the UN report ‘SIDS in Numbers 2017’, Mauritius is p rojected to become a water stressed country by 2025 and its agricultural production may decline by as much as 30%. The summer outlook released by the Mauritius Meteorological Services predicted explosive inte nsification of cyclones for our forthcoming summer, whil e 7 to 9 Tropical cyclones which would be evolving in the vicinity of the Mascarenes regions could generate high waves that are likely to reach the shores of our island. Mr. Presiden t, While financial pledges made by the developed nations are trickling down at a snail’s pace, developing countries like ours are finding it very arduous to mobilize resources to cope with accentuating climate change impacts. In the wake of the climate ch ange, we are being required to invest even more massively on our environ ment and natural assets. Mainstreaming climate 4 change to enhance resilience is resulting in huge costs escalation in sectors such as infrastructures and water storage facilities. In sp ite of its limited resources, small island nation like Mauritius is doing more that its f air share to adapt to adverse impacts while contributing to the global effort of mitigating climate change. Mauritius is investing around 2% of its Gross Domestic Prod ucts, that is, roughly USD 285 million annually, in environment and c limate change related actions. Additionally, the Government of Mauritius has injected USD 57 million into a National Environment Fund portfolio for this financial year, to implement measu res such as flood management, rehabilitation of degraded beaches and the implementation of a National Multi Hazard Early Warning and Emergency Alert System to strengthen our capability to address disaster risk reduction and management concerns. With thes e measures, Mauritius has started to move towards the implementation o f its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). An adaptation programme for land drainage management and coastal zone rehabilitation is under preparation with the assistance of the Fren ch governmen t. Furthermore, a National Adaptation P lan for sectors suc h as infrastructure, agriculture and fisheries are also being considered with the assistance of the Green Climate Fund. The Government has also taken a series of measures to improve res ponse and pr eparedness to disasters. It has put in place the necessar y 5 institutional and legislative framework through a National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act and a Land Drainage Authority Act, to effectively manage flooding and water accumul ation issues. A climate change bill is also nearing finalization and its aim is to consolidat e the legal framework towards enhancing resilience and achieving a low carbon emission economy. As far as mitigation is concerned, Mauritius is working on its Nationally Appr opriate Mitigation Actions which would culminate in the formul ation of a National Climate Change Mitigation Strategy and Action Plan. The focus is on the promotion of renewable energy, sustainable waste management and sustainable agriculture. Private secto rs are also being involved in renewable energy initiativ es suc h as the Deep Ocean Water Application and solar power technologies. Mr President However, our sheer determination will not suffice. In spite of considerable amount of resources being invested at our level, the amount of funding required are still d eficie nt as important investment will be needed for the rehabilitation and protection of 15 critical ly eroded coastal sites, the formulation and i mplementation of a system for reinforcing the back ree f ecosystem, the provision of cyclone safe b unkers on our oute r islands of Agalega and St Brandon, and the construction of fully equipped Refuge Centre s in Mauritius and Agalega. 6 Mauritius still need s an estimated USD 5.5 billion as mean of implementation for both adaptation and mitigation for measures listed in its Nationally Determined Contributions. Unless we receive technical and financial support from the international community, we will not be able to meet our objectives for a climate resil ient and saf er Mauritius. Mr President, Time is ticking away, and we are still behind schedule to bail ourselves out of this terrible situation. As we are nearing the 2020 deadline, it has become most urgent for us to act now. The finalisation of the rulebook for the Paris Agreement needs to be finalised to enable i ts operationalisation. Unless, we expedite the pace of works in a balanced and equitable manner, we may lose the window of opportunities to save the planet. Allow me to emphasize that predict able finance is critical for Small Island Developing States and countr ies of Africa. We will need to have progress towards the setting of new global goal on finance and on more robust finance framework. This will also significantly advance our global effor ts to addres s adaptation as promised in December 2015. This call is no w more than justified and backed by observations made in the latest IPCC special report, which underlined that a daptation options specific to national contexts will have benefits for sus tainable dev elopment and poverty reducti on. 7 I wish to urge developed countries communit y to enhance pre -2020 mitigation action s, as well as provision of support in terms technology development and transfer, and capacity building. We are very hopeful that the Talanoa Dialogue will smoothen out this process. I will al so urg e our developed country partners to give due attention to the Loss and Damage issue, which is highly relevan t to the most vulnerable countries which are already coping with a scale of cli mate impacts which are defying their best efforts to adapt. Mr. President, The world is watching on us. The vulnerable communities are demanding actions. We need to act promptly and effectively and put our differences aside to progress towards concrete actions. We know our target s and we know how to get there. Now it is high time for us to go beyond words. I thank you all for your attention.