Excellencies Distinguished delegates Youth of the world Ladies and gentlemen The threat of climate change is now descending upon us like a mighty wave. Already, throughout our islands, people are suffering from the devastating impacts that - like bombs or sanctions – could forever change our lives, our way of life, and our hope fo r a vibrant future. I address you today, not only on behalf of my island nation, but also on behalf of our ancestors who came to inhabit these islands more than 4,000 years ago… on behalf of my grandchildren… and hopefully their grandchildren. We ask coun tries – and especially the larger emitters – to take more SERIOUS action to address climate change… To make some reasonable sacrifices – so that island nations do not have to make the ultimate sacrifice. Islanders around the world are no longer “potentia l” victims of climate change. We are present victims. We face an uncertain and possibly uninhabitable future, NOW. Without radical measures to reduce warming in the next decade, our lands and livelihoods could perish -- and our people will follow. The wo rld has run out of time to rely just on CO2 emissions reductions., While deep and sustained cuts in CO2 are absolutely necessary, they will not sufficiently take effect until mid -century. By then, many lives could be lost and irreversible tipping points – like the die -off of our beautiful coral reefs or the melting of the ice sheets - triggered, making many of our islands uninhabitable. If we want to stand a chance of keeping 1.5 alive, we urgently need to deliver massive cut in short -lived super -pollutan ts that slow warming - NOW. Methane mitigation, in particular, is the most powerful, fast -acting option to prevent warming this decade. It is time to move beyond voluntary pledges to clear goals and cooperative action backed by funding. We must close the gap between ambition and implementation, and we must do so NOW. To limit emissions and realign with a 1.5 degree pathway with no overshoot — the global community must also begin a complete phase out of fossil fuels. We must be serious about transforming ou r energy systems and other highly -polluting sectors. We must ensure increased access to adequate and sustained financing for climate action across all sectors, in line with the objectives and principles of this Convention. The first Global Stocktake must be more than an exercise in compiling technical papers – it must strengthen and guarantee full implementation the Paris Agreement. We must reach an agreement on a robust and effective Framework for the Global Goal on Adaptation backed by streamlined access to adaptation finance, especially for countries like my own already having to adapt to the impacts of a crisis we did not create. The Loss and Damage Fund, long fought for and much -needed, must help particularly vulnerable countries while it builds resili ence for what is to come. [PAUSE TO MOVE TO CONCLUSION] There are many injustices in the climate crisis, beginning with the fact that those who contaminate the least are those who will suffer the most. Micronesia and other islands have carried much more t han our weight strengthening our NDCs and accruing greater debt to pay for adaptation measures or climate emergencies. We stand on the frontline of this existential crisis watching as the rising tides wipe away our shorelines and push us into a desolate an d uncertain future. That is why we ask the world to STOP. STOP new fossil fuel extraction, STOP excessive consumption, STOP methane emissions, STOP throwing fuel on the fire. And START taking greater responsibility for the past and protecting the people and resources of the future. Start with courage and commitment. START and don’t stop until the world is safe - not for just you, but for us all. We thank you for your attention. And we thank the Government of the United Arab Emirates for hosting this mee ting at a critical time that could change the course of the climate crisis… we truly hope it is a change for the better.