0 REPÚBLICA DE MOÇAMBIQUE Presidência da República UNITED TO SAVE THE PLANET Statement by His Excellency Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic of Mozambique at the 27th Session of the State Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Chang e, Sharm El -Sheikh, 7 - 8 November 2022 Please Check Against Delivery 1 Your Excellency Simon Stiels President elect of the 27th Session of the States Party to the Convention on Climate Change ; Your Excellency António Guterres, Secret ary General of the United Nations ; Excel lencies Heads of State and Government ; Ladies and Gentlemen ! I have a singular privilege to address this COP 27 debate on behalf of Mozambicans and my Government in a context of post -COVID -19 recovery and extreme weather events that undermine the global sustainable development agenda. I extend my greet ings to all present and thank the people and Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt for their warm hospitality and excellent working facilities availed for this event. Mr President, congratulations on your nomination ! Mozambique is one of the countries most exposed to th e risks of climate change, characterized by tropical cyclones, floods and cyclical droughts that require more assertive adaptation and resilience measures. It is therefore, imperative to strengthen funding in various forms provided for in the Convention, such as the Mechanism adopted at COP 19 in line with the Sendai framework. In 2022, the country hosted the Regional Conference that culminated in the Maputo Declaration on Sustainable and Integrated Management of the Miombo Forest, which sets priorities for the next decade and reinforces the transparent, inclusive and responsible governance of these forests, which are key to the sustainable development of the signatory countries. 2 Mozam bique also hosted the SADC Ministerial Meeting, in September, which approved the "Maputo Declaration on SADC Early Warning and Early Action ", essential in the impact -based response, demonstrating the individual and collective commitment of Member States to defend nature and reduce the disasters’ risks arising from climate change. We have launched the Presidential I nitiative "One District, One Meteorological Station", installing modern weather stations to gather effective early warning data for Early Actio n that makes communities resilient and less vulnerable to extreme weather events. We are the host of the SADC Emergency and Humanitarian Operations Centre since 2021 in Nacala to coordinate emergency response in Southern Africa, with the support and collab oration of Bilateral and Multilateral Development Partners and civil society, avoiding loss of life and disaster damage. We, therefore, call on all - international and local partners, public and private, to mobilise financial and technological resources to restore and conserve the mangrove, the rich biodiversity and the Miombo forest ecosystems of the Zambezi Basin, the largest in Africa and the world, essential for carbon sequestration. Mr President, Excel lencies, For us a fair energy transition is an exercise of social inclusion, it must be gradual and should reduc e the negative impact on the economic development of the country, as happened in the countries develop ed today so we want to continue in the medium term, using our natural resources such as natural gas that is less polluting, and g enerat es financing f or adaptation actions and climate resilience. 3 As for the carbon market, we call on climate finance providers to make disbursements in a balanced and satisfac tory way to enable implement ation of more effective mitigation and adaptation initiatives. During our term as a non -permanent Member of the UN Security Council, which begins in January 2023, we will p lace climate issues at the top of the agenda and embark on concerted and effective action to address the climate scourge. On behalf of the Government of Mozambique we support the candidature of the United Arab Emirates to host COP 28 in 2023. I conclude by invi ting everyone to protect the climate system for mitigation and adaptation under the Paris Agreement, providing means to protect communities, ecosystems and built capital from the impacts of climate change for the good of present and future generations. Thank You Very Much for Your Attention !