1 NATIONAL STATEMENT ON THE OCCASION OF THE LEADERS EVENT AT THE 22 SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE, MARRAKECH, MOROCCO, 16 NOVEMBER 2016., BY HON. POHAMBA SHIFETA MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA Your Highness Majesty King Mohammed VI, Your Excellences, Heads of State and Government, Your Excellency, Bang Ki-Moon, Secretary General of United Nations, Your Excellency, - the COP22 President, Your Excellencies ministers, Ms. Patricia Espinosa – Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and gentlemen Allow me, at the onset, to express my profound gratification to the gover nment and people of Morocco for hosting this important conference and for the warm hospitality we have enjoyed since our arrival in this beautiful city of Marrakech. The early entry into force of the Paris Agreement is a clear testimony to the urgency that the international community attaches to climate action. It requires no rocket - science to prove the reality of climate change as everyone, everywhere on this planet is suffering from it. 2 If we all believe in science of climate change, as provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), then time is no longer on our side to tackle global warming. As developing countries, we are extremely concerned about the gap in the emission reduction targets of developed countries. We are equally concerned about the delay of Annex1 Parties to ratify the Doha Amendments to the Kyoto Protocol. I would like to reiterate our call for Annex 1 Parties to fulfill their mandate without further delay. Our countries continue to bear the brunt of high economic and social costs arising from frequent climate change related disasters such as droughts and floods. We are now heavily paying for the impacts of a problem that we did not cause. Furthermore, our efforts to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change are inhibited by a lack of means of implementation, particularly financial resources. Adapting to the adverse impacts of climate change is a costly undertaking, which places a heavy burden on national budget. The loss and damages to our infrastruc ture due to floods, sea level rise as well as the loss of livestock, and crop failures increase this resource burden even more. This situation calls for the urgent full capitalization of the Green Climate Fund. However, we are concerned about the slow process of the capitalization of the Green Climate Fund which limits our countries possibili ties to access adequate finance for adaptation, which is a key priority for developing economies. Your Majesty, 3 Mr. President Your Excellencies Even though we prioritize adaptation, we are equally involved in mitigation actions. Namibia has put in place plans for large -scale investments in renewable energy. We would like to appeal to developed countries to provide finance for these investments through various financial mechanisms in order to operationalize them as soon as possible. We look forward with great anticipation to the mobilization of the promised US$100 billion for climate finance. Mr. President, Allow me at this juncture to say a few words about the operational modalities of the Green Climate Fund. The developing countries played an instrumental role in the establishment of this Fund to provide speedy financial resources to developing countries. Experience today has not been encouragi ng because of cumbersome procedures and lack of information. This Fund should increase its visibility through extensive outreach initiatives. Furthermore, the GCF should have a strong presence in the various regions of the United Nations by establishing regional offices. This could help many countries to speedily access funding. Therefore, we urge the Board of the Green Climate Fund to endorse this idea as soon as it is practically possible. Mr. President, Climate change is also an issue of intergenerat ional justice. The fact remains that industrialized countries developed their economies through very high emission paths, which caused the atmosphere to warm up. Those of us who contributed the 4 least are now the ones suffering most without adequate means to address the negative impact of climate change. We incurred losses and damages due to climate change and thus need to be compensated. We cannot incur debts to address a problem we did not cause. The principles and provisions of the Convention are quite explicitly clear and give credence to this position. While all countries have the responsibility to address global warming, actions to tackle climate change have to be differentiated based on historical emissions, national circumstances and capabilities of our economies. Mr. President It must be noted clearly that as developing countries, we are already doing much to implement adaptation and mitigation activities at our own costs. Namibia has submitted an ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) to the UNFCCC, which sets out the country’s national climate change agenda. Our INDC commits the country to reduce the greenhouse gas emission by 90% by 2030 in sectors such as agriculture, energy, industrial processes and waste management. We are pleas ed to report that NAMIBIA became one of the first member states to ratify Paris Agreement. Your Excellencies, If we believe in science, then we all have to be worried. And this worry must be translated into meaningful actions to halt global warming today and not tomorrow. We believe that Marrakech will build on Paris by putting in place comprehensive 5 working groups of experts to craft the modalities, procedures and guidelines for implementation and operationalizing the Paris Agreement. As political leaders, we need to unite as citizens of one planet with a shared vision to fight against global warming and to save our planet from further heating. We must be decisive without further delay in order to enable the UNFCCC to achieve its ultimate goal of limiti ng the temperature rise to a level that will be safer for the global community. The ball is in our hands but time is not on our side. Let us make the Marrakech COP a big success. I Thank You!