1 REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA STATEMENT BY HIS EXCELLENCY DR HAGE G. GEINGOB PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA ON THE OCCASION HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE TWENTY -SEVENTH CONFERENCE OF PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (COP 27) 7-8 November 2022 Sharm El -Sheikh, Arab Republic of Egypt 2 H.E. Abdel Fattah Al -Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, Hon. Sameh Shoukry, COP-27 President, Your majesties, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, 1. On behalf of the Namibian nation, I wish to extend warm gratitude to the people and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt for hosting the 27th Conference of the Parties on the African Continent. Ladies and Gentlemen 2. I wish to outline that Cop27, offers ano ther opportunity, following the landmark COP26, in Glasgow, Scotland, to reset our international agenda towards meeting our targets in preserving the global commons and stepping up our efforts at climate mitigation through practical and tangible steps. 3 There is a growing need to recharge our climate change mitigation efforts as an international fraternity of nations. In this regard, the international community is again implored to honour the commitments under the Paris agreement, and to strengthen the gain s made under COP26. 3. The Climate emergency remains one of the key challenges facing humanity. It is a test of the multilateral system. However, it offers an opportunity to justify the unique purpose of the multilateral system. 4. The theme for COP27, “Delivering for people and the planet” helps focus our efforts in the direction of aiding those most affected by the effects of climate change and pressures from the triple crises of the ongoing fallout from COVID -19; increasing global food and energy prices, our citizens. 4 5. In meeting these challenges tangibly, Namibia joins the rest of the developing world and broader community of nations in appealing for sustained efforts towards meeting the global target of warming by 1.5C. 6. Namibia encourages developed countries to support developing countries by capitalizing the Green Climate Fund. Regrettably, thus far only 23 billion has been committed. We are confident, that “the African COP”, will serve as a potential tipping point fo r creating greater consensus that results in the mobilisation of support in practice. 7. In expressing our commitments, as part of our de - carbonization strategy, Namibia will continue to strengthen our efforts towards greening the Namibian energy economy, through ongoing efforts to support a nascent green hydrogen industry. 5 Through national Green Hydrogen efforts, Namibia remains well -positioned to become a major supplier of clean and green energy to the world. Our Green hydrogen agenda, which is premised on harnessing cleaner sources of energy, has now set sail, with an Inte r- Ministerial Green Hydrogen Council (GHC), launched on the 23rd of May 2021, as outlined in the second Harambee Prosperity Plan. 8. In building on our commitments under COP26, for COP27, Namibia’s priorities are as follows but not limited to: a)Urgin g the scaling up of the levels of climate finance, through providing concrete long term -targets for climate finance pathways and accounting methodologies for the collective goal by developed countries to reach USD 100 billion a year from 2025 and beyond. 6 b)Splitting climate finance evenly between adaptation and mitigation. Proceeds from the global carbon market system set up under the Paris Agreement should go to the Adaptation Fund to finance projects and programmes in developing countries. c)Calling on developed countries to provide the means of implementation and support for the effective Implementation and enhancement of nationally determined contributions by developing countries. d)Supporting of the acceleration of climate technology transfer; through creating access to information and knowledge on climate technologies; and fostering collaboration among climate technology stakeholders. e)Enhancement of full operationalization of the Santiago Network on Loss and Damage, in order to achieve the mandate of providing actions and support for vulnerable developing countries. 7 Through establishment of a loss and damage finance facility with new and additional loss and damage finance. Ensure inclusion of loss and damage in the discussions on the new finance goal that come into effect from 2025, with new and additional sources and levels of finance. Ladies and Gentlemen 9. Indeed, as the effects of climate change continue to deepen, Namibia joins the international community in calling for more coun tries to show climate commitment through their Nationally Determined Contributions, Namibia further calls on developing countries to support climate adaptation through supporting capitalization of these would act as tangible means for supporting climate mitigating efforts practically. 8 10. The “African COP”, which can be viewed as an important step for developing nations in the fight against climate change, ought to bring greater coherence to our climate agenda breathing life into our commitments under the Paris Agreement and COP26, and act as a crucial building block, to the overarching objective of the Climate Change Convention (UNFCCC). 11. In closing, on behalf of the Government and the People of Namibia, I would like to extend th e call to the international community to support developing country efforts at climate mitigation through improving climate financing. I also wish to implore all states to double down on meeting our national obligations to the UNFCCC. 12. The “African CO P”, offers another opportunity for the international community to bring its full weight behind efforts at ensuring that we meet our global climate mitigation targets. I thank you!