Statement by Dr. Pem Narayan Kandel, Secretary of the Ministry of Forest and Environment and head of the Delegation of Nepal to the COP27 Sharm El Sheikh, 15 November 2022 Time: 3 Minutes Words to Speak : 478 Mr. President, Excellencies, • At the outset, on behalf of the delegation of Nepal, I would like to extend our sincere gratitude to the Government of Arab Republic of Egypt, for hosting this COP 27 - in this beautiful Sharm El Sheikh city. • At the climate COP 21, heads of the states set a target to li mit global warming to 1.5 degree and keep the temperature below 2 Degree Celsius in this century. • However, the recent emission gap report reveals that there has been inadequate progress in reducing the temperature level and the emissions. • Therefore, we anticipate that COP27 would focus to review our commitments and renew solidarity to deliver on the landmark Paris Agreement. • Nepal, being a landlocked mountain country with fragile topography, is facing the negative impact of climate change despite its negl igible contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. • Mountains are the “water towers”, providing ecosystem services, and climate regulation extend far beyond their geographical boundaries. However, mountains are fragile ecosystem t he climate crisis is making it even more fragile than before. • Due to extreme climatic events, Nepal is facing climate -induced disasters in different forms and extent causing huge losses to the economy, ecosystem, and humanity. • Melting snow and ice from the mountains contribute to s ea level rise and these two regions are interconnected but mountains have yet to receive the same level of attention. Excellencies, • Nepal has raised high climate a mbitio n in its updated NDC to reach net-zero emissions by 2045. It is the leader for effect ive implementation of L ocal Adaptation Plan of Action through participation of local stakeholder s. We have already achieved to reverse deforestation and maintain 45% forest cover. • All C limate change and sustainable development related policies are in place. • With abundant water, forest and biodiversity resources, Nepal can contribute to sharing clean, green, and nature -based climate solutions in the region. • However, to translate all those ambitions and plans into action, we need huge resources, technology and capacity. I urge development partners to ensure adequate technical, and financial support to the economically and environmentally vulnerable countries like Nepal. Excellencies • We do not have gaps in climate target and commitment. But actions and impl ementation are lacking. • As a result, emission gap increased and window of limiting temperature is almost closing. The task facing the world is immense not just to set more ambitious targets, but also to deliver on all commitments. • Before I conclude, I wou ld like to request the global communit y to include a mountain agenda in the climate COP negotiation processes to save majestic mountains for the planet and humanity. • Reflecting on urgent need for action to tackle climate crisis, we have a unique opportuni ty to make COP 27 another milestone to handover better planet for next generation. • Nepal is firmly committed to be a part of this endeavors and looks forward to an enhanced level of cooperation. I thank you all.