Statement by H.E. Eric Wiebes, Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy of the Netherlands at the UN Climate Change Conference ‘COP23’, Bonn Check against deliv ery […], Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,  It is evident that our current global efforts are insufficient to achieve the well below 2°C target, let alone the more ambitious target of 1.5°C.  If we want to stand a chance to meet these objective s, we will all have to step up our efforts significantly.  Next year – during the facilitative dialogue - we will take stock of our collective efforts. And we will all have the possibility to raise the level of ambition by 2020.  During this process, the Netherlands will propose to raise the EU emiss ion reduction target for 2030 to 55% compared to 1990. Hopefully in close cooperation with a great number of other Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission.  At the same time, we will explore the possibilities for an ambitious approach with our neighbouring countries. This is an invitation! A joint approach can minimise competitive distortions and carbon leakage.  In anticipation of the outcome of the European process, we will already takes steps to prepare the Netherlands for a reduction of 49% in 2030.  To achieve this, the new Dutch government will among other things : o Adopt a Climate Act and introduce a minimum CO2 price for the electricity sector. o Close all coal-fired power stations by 2030. o And both promote sustainable energy such as wind, and carbon capture and storage in industry.  Ensuring the implementation of the most cost- effective measures, with global emission reduction as the fundamental aim.  The transition also gives rise to new economic opportunities, thereby creating new jobs. We should make the most of these opportunities by developing and implementing innovative solutions, enabling our business es to contribute to, and benefit from, the global transition towards a carbon -neutral economy.  The fight against climate change is one of the central policy aims of the new Dutch government, and we stand ready to cooperate closely with you and ensure that we indeed deliver on the goals set out in the Paris Agreement.