Your Excellencies, It is not a novel fact that h umanity is facing an immense climate crisis. A world devastated by climate change would be a world stricken by unimaginable human suffering. A nd the profound injustice is that the most vulnerable nations, po pulations and sectors would be disproportionately affected. First come the vulnerable nations. Situated in one of the most climate - vulnerable regions in the world, the Mediterranean, North Macedonia is a small country with big climate ambitions. Our targe t is to reduce a net 82% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. This is not an easy task. Coal power plants are our major source of electricity, but, also our biggest polluters, affecting both climate and health. The dilemma is how t o phase -out coal without jeopardizing the energy security of the country and the livelihood of communities. Despite the energy crisis, we are determined to achieve th is goal by the end of th e decade. North Macedonia was the first European pilot country to be selected for the Accelerated Coal Transition program by the Climate Investment Fund. Here a t COP28, together with the EBRD we will be launching the Just Energy Transition Investment Platform, which will help us mobilize the necessary funds to switch t o renewables, speed up grid investments and create high -quality green jobs for mining communities. We wish to invite potential partners and donors to join this platform and prove that just energy transition is not only necessary, but also possible and affo rdable. By doing so, we will comply with the EU Global Renewables and Energy Efficiency Pledge. Second are the vulnerable populations, such as children. We support the completion of the first Global Stocktake, the adoption of the Global Goal on Adaptation Framework and making the Loss and Damage Fund opera tionally viable. In order to be truly fair and impartial, all systems m ust integrate the needs and respect the rights of children. Third are the vulnerable sectors, such as health. Tackling climate change could be an opportunity to develop climate and disaster -resilient health systems. To this end, we fully support the Declaration on Climate and Health. Finally, by caring for the planet and the people, for the ecosystems and the economy, we will reduce energy insecurity, and contribute to much needed peace and security. Vulnerability can be an excuse for desp eration, or a chance for action. Let’s choose the second option. Thank you.