Nasjonalt innlegg COP 27 Ladies and gentlemen, Urgent action is needed to keep the 1.5-degree target alive. Norway is stepping up its efforts. I am pleased to announce that we have submitted an enhanced climate target under the Paris Agreement. We will reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. We will deliver on our commitments. We will implement a just climate policy by increasing our carbon tax to 200 euro s per ton ne by 2030. We will cut em issions and create jobs. We will align our policies and targets by making an annual climate action plan a part of our national budget. We will fulfil our pledge to double climate finance within the next four years. Friends, The livelihoods of millions of poor and vulnerable people are threatened by the loss of nature and the impacts of climate change. This is why Norway is committed to tripling its adaptation finance. We also need to strengthen efforts to prevent loss and damage. We must ensure that no one is left behind. I am proud to be part of the Global Energy Alliance for People and Planet. This initiative will accelerate and scale up equitable energy transitions, providing opportunities for decent jobs and energy access to one billion people in developing countries. Climate change and biodiversity loss must be addressed together. Norway is proud to cooperate with tropical forest countries that are working to reduce deforestation. I applaud President -elect Lula’s renewed commitment to the Amazon. The ocean s are an important part of the solution. The Ocean Panel has highlighted the huge potential of ocean -based climate action to reduce emissions. The Green Shipping Challenge was launched yesterday with the aim of reducing emissions from this important sector. New industrial solutions hold promise for the future. Today, President El-Sisi and I will be launch ing the initial phase of an integrated green hydrogen production facility, the first of its kind in an emerging market. The facility will use solar energy to produce hydrogen, an illustration of Africa’s vast potential to harness renewable energy. Friends, Emission cuts, adaptation efforts, nature -based solutions and advances in technology give grounds for hope. Let’s work together to move faster on ambition and implementation. Thank you.