Statement on behalf of the E uropean Union and its M ember States Page 1 of 2 STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND ITS MEMBER STATES Opening Plenary of the Ministerial Segment of COP2 6 Glasgow, 9 November 2021 Statement delivered by mr. Frans Timmermans, executive vice president of the European Commission Dear friends, The first week of our conference has been characterised by promising declarations and great promises by our leaders. And also by great work by the Presidency and by Patricia and her team. And I do appreciate everything that's been done by delegations and negotiators so far. But the honest truth is that we are not where we need to be. Not even close. We are moving in the right di rection, yes, but the world is still too far away from our 1.5 degree goal. This week, before we leave this conference, we need to make sure that we take decisions that put us on track to reaching our goal. And this needs to be done within a year, because time is running out. This is about addressing the effects of the crisis that we are already in. It's not just about preventing things getting even worse. We need to really realise that today is the day we need to act, on adaptation as well. Financing adaptation is critical. We all repeated that mantra endlessly. But the rhetoric, sadly, is not followed by action. We all need to get cracking and we all need to do it now. That is why the European Commission will contribute €100 million to the Adaptation Fund. Because those who need resources for adaptation, also need to have predictability and clarity about its delivery. To the Parties pushing for more ambition I say this: You will find the EU on your side. To the Parties stopping and stalling progress, I say: What are you waiting for? Science tells us we are out of time. Extreme weather events show us the consequences, everywhere on our planet. To everyone here I say: Let's overcome our differences and find solutions this week. COP26 is not a place for di sagreement and narrow mindedness. Statement on behalf of the E uropean Union and its M ember States Page 2 of 2 COP26 must be where we work together and succeed together. It's time! Thank you. Statement delivered by mr. Andrej Vizjak, Minister for the Environment and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Slovenia Dear President, Dist inguished Ministers, Colleagues, Firstly, I would like to thank UK Presidency for all their efforts so far IPCC report clearly shows that global warming can only be limited to 1.5°C, if strong and sustained reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are under taken. Collectively we need to urgently step up global climate mitigation ambition in the near term, well ahead of 2030. We have heard strong and clear voices by civil society, especially the youth, that more ambitious climate action is needed. And now in Glasgow we have the opportunity to demonstrate that we have responded to their message. The EU is fully committed to work in this direction. We need to come to a clear, comprehensive and balanced outcome which will ensure an ambitious global response to cl imate change, keeping the 1.5 °C goal within reach, in line with the best available science. • We would like to conclude on robust Article 6 rules which must avoid double counting and ensure environmental integrity. • Concluding on arrangements under the enhanced transparency framework, which is the backbone of a well -functioning Paris Agreement, is a key element. • reaching a consensus on common time frame for all Parties to be fully aligned with the Paris Agreement ambition cycle. • continuing discussion on set ting the new post -2025 collective goal on climate finance in light of making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards a low emission, recognizing the needs of developing countries. • Continuing the discussion on the Global Goal on Adaptation and advancing work ok loss and damage EU firmly believes that only international engagement through strong rule- based multilateralism and human rights -based approach including through the Global Climate Action Agenda, will enable us to achieve successful results i n addressing climate change. Colleagues, ministers, our responsibility for achieving goals of the Paris Agreement is a shared commitment. We need to substantially increase mitigations efforts, scale up adaptation measures and increase the mobilisation of climate finance.