1 Address by H.E. Malik Amin Aslam Khan Federal Minister - Climate Change (Special Assistant to Prime Minister ) 26th Session of Conference of Parties (COP -26) to the U nited Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) (31-12 November 2021 Glasgow UK ) Excellency Mr Alok Sharma, President of COP 26 Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen. Mr President, Let me take this opportunity to thank the Government and people of United Kingdom for successfully hosting th e conference in the beautiful city of Glasgow. The ongoing COVID crisis has taught us two very important lessons. Firstly – that we can not fight nature and hope to win. The COVID pandemic, biodiversity crisis and the climate calamity are all manifestations of a losing battle. 2 Nature knows how to rebalance and it will. It is us who need to step back from this warpath. Secondly – the COVID crisis has shown us that a better world is out there and possible. This is the world that the youth, out on the streets, is crying out for. This is the future that all of us in here need to be fighting for. It is a decarbonized and a nature positive world. Excellency, Under the visionary green leadership of our PM I mran Kha n, Pakistan has taken the choice to embrace this new world – shifting to clean energy and making nature an ally rather than an adversary of development. Our climate vision is built on these two pillars - shifting 60% of our energy mix towards clean energy by 2030 and 30% of our transport on EV by 2030 and of putting our trust and investment in “Nature Based Solutions”. We have announced to completely shift out of imported coal projects and are turning the CPEC into a China 3 Pakistan Gree n Economic Corridor. Three financially closed coal projects of 2500 MW have been shelved in the last year and shifted to zero carbon Hydro power of 3700 MW. Pakistan’s “Ten Billion Tree Tsunami” has now become a global brand for success ful ecosystem rest oration through natural regeneration and forest plantations - all sequestering carbon for the world. The Protected Areas Initiative in Pakistan, with 15 new NPs announced during the COVID time, is rapidly expanding and protecting our wilderness areas Our “Recharge Pakistan” initiative is turning the crisis of floods into an opportunity by using it to restore our wetlands and recharge our ground water aquifers. All these are examples of real climate action today – not an illusion of climate action - and are now part of our updated NDC, which remains one of the most ambitious jumps for climate action in the world. 4 We have dropped our emissions 9% below BAU in 2020 and have developed a pathway to reach 15% below BAU by 2030 utilizing our own resources – I repeat our own resources. However, we have also thrown a conditional challenge to th e world. Deliver us the climate finance of a $100 bn over the next decade and we will drop our emissions to 50% below BAU. With less than 1% of the global emissions, Pakistan is certainly not a part of the problem of climate change. However, we have chosen to be a part of the solution. Our NDC shows what is possible if a clear climate vision and strategic planning get positive ly aligned. The World Bank recently affirmed that 44% of our mainstream development finance is on a climate friendly pathway and it is the highest for any country in the world. We are not just talking - but walking the talk on climate change. Can this r oom also walk the talk on climate finance – currently overpromised and under delivered? The decade old promissory note of a $100 billion needs to be delivered and, more importantly, 60% of it directed towards climate adaptation. 5 Excellency Even though we are not a major contributor, we continue to be on the top ten list of most vulnerable countries for 10 straight years now – this puts u s in a special category of “c ontinuously impacted countries”. We are on the front lines - braving disastrous floods, unlivable heatwaves and bursting glaciers. This climate injustice, as viewed from Pakistan’s lens, is the gravest human rights violation of history where the lives and livelihoods of billions of people are at risk – all due to the unbridled pollution and uncontrolled excesses of a few. The forced climate adaptation needs remain at between $7 to $14 billion per annum and almost 70 % of these fall in the loss and damage category. This Adaptation finance is forced upon us today and presents a simple choice - between life and death. Mr President, The galaxy of world leaders who gathered here last week, unfortunately failed to live up to the expectations of the world and rise to the reality of the grave challenge we face. 6 Climate Change can not be wished away by throwing pennies into the Trevi fountain nor by announc ing net zero scams pushing into 2070. Climat e change is about action today and can no longer afford futuristic IOUs. This has to be the decisive decade for de -carbonization and nature positive development. The silver linings of this process are not found in this room but on the sidelines – the Pavilion Zone - where t he private sector initiatives are gaining ground, the technologies becoming available and affordable and some new innovative financial mechanisms like the “Energy Transiti on Mechanism” and “Nature Performance Bonds” pushing new frontiers. Pakistan is actively engaged with al l this “out of the box ” thinking and this is really what gives hope that a new world is possible. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is now time 7 It is time to stop playing jokes with Climate Change. We will most certainly not have the last laugh on this. It is time to change course so let us make that happen here at Glasgow. Let us not become the dinosaurs who refused to change. I thank you.