1 Statement by H.E. M alik Amin Aslam Advisor to Prime Minister / Minister of Climate Change Government of Pakistan High Level Segment of COP 2 4 Your Excellency, Mr. Michał Kurtyka, President of COP 24 Distinguished Heads of Delegations, Madam Executive Secretary, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen. I would like to first of all congratulate the Government and people of Poland for assuming the presidency and hosting this COP -24 in the beautiful city of Katowice. This is now the third COP hosted in Poland – which in itself is a testament to the c ommitment that Poland has to the success of the climate negotiations process. In this regard, I want to assure you of Pakistan's fullest support in carrying forward the climate agenda. I would also like to ackno wledge the hard work put in by the government of Fiji as Presidency of C OP 23 in forging and bringing us to the Katowice negotiations table. 2 Mr. President, Every year, we all gather to correct a political landscape which seems to have clearly lost s ync wi th science as well as reality. The science of climate change is crying out “loud and clear” with the latest IPCC report warning of a suppressed timeframe for meaningful action and a critical need fo r mobilizing corresponding international climate finance. Mr. President, 12 years is what we now have before the inevitable irr eversibility of climate change kicks in and 12 years is what we have before we collectively push our planet over a threshold of chaotic uncertainty. This clarion call is equall y match ed with the reality of climate change which has been ferociously manifest ing itself across the world - and especially in Pakistan. Pakistan is ranked 135th in terms of its contribution to global emissions but has been in the top ten vulnerable coun tries c onsistently over the past two decade s. For Pakistan, climate change is neither “fake” news nor a convoluted conspiracy – Mr. President, it is a stark reality. It stares us in the face every day as we are forced to cope with recurring super floods, unpred icted 3 droughts, chaotic heat waves, melting glaciers, threatening GLOFs as well as rapidly shifting weather patterns. Over the past four decades, 90% of the natural disasters in Pakistan have been triggered by climate change and this places us une nviably at 8th position in the current German Watch vulnerability ranking s. Clim ate change is, today, affecting our daily lives, disrupting our economic progress, loading almost 8% of our GDP with forced climate costs, posing grave security and social risk s and c reating millions of climate migrants, all “unjustly” bear ing the burden of the global climate cri sis. Mr. President, Pakistan is a country without a choice on climate adaptation as it is facing up to the impacts at ground “zero”. O ur climate ad aptation needs are between $7 to $14 billion per annum and this is all forced adaptation. This, subsequently, makes climate compatible development an inevitable direction to take and building resilience of our vulnerable communities as well as our infrastr ucture, an undeniable option. We are committed to doing both as we live through the age of this forced adaptation. Subsequent ly, we are working on shifting towards climate resilient agriculture as well as a n initiative to utilize our flood waters for ecosystem res toration and ground water recharge – a nature based solution to “Recharge Pakistan ” 4 While on climate adaptation Pakistan does not have a choice, On climate mitigation we have ourselves chosen to responsibly partner in the gl obal efforts – not because the b urden of historical clima te baggage is forcing us to but because Pakistan is willing to think differently about the future, develop along a different pathway and become an “enabler” of the new transition economy that our sci entists tell us, is possible if and only if we have the political will to make that choice. This low carbon economy is the only solution we have to climate change and in Pakistan we are responsibly steering the country towards this green growth. Mr. Pres ident, Starting from the small province of Khyber Pakhtu nkhwa, we embarked on a journey to plant a billion trees and 4 years down the line, the “Billion Tree Tsunami” became the first entity under the global “Bonn Challenge” to not only meet its pledge of restoring 3.48 million ha of fo rest but has today signi ficantly enhanced it by restoring over 6 million ha of forest. This project created half a million green jobs, revived the forest biodiversity, engaged the indigenous communities and energized our yo uth to become custodians of a green future. This has now laid the foundations for the “10 Billion Tree Tsunami” which our Prime Minister recently launched across the countr y and all of this has been fully financed by the Government. 5 We have so far, s pent more than US $ 120 million on the initiative, and plan to spend a nother estimated US $ 1 billion throug h domestic res ource s. This green political wil l is also manifesting itself in the renewable energy sector with the Government fully committed to capitalize the large indigenous potent ial in wind, solar and hydro as well as utilizing nuclear energy. More than 365 small run -of-the- river hydro projects have been set up in the north providing access to off-grid and affordable “zero carbon” electric ity. In the transport sector, with cataly tic GCF fin ancing, Pakistan has finalized a multi - million dol lar “zero emission” bus metro system for the city of Karachi operating on c attle waste generated biogas. All the above are indicators Mr. President, of a shifting landscape in Pakistan under the new government towards a cleaner, greener and sustainabl e future aiming for lowering the emission s and ensuring climate resilient growth. I must emphasis that these actions and in itiativ es go much beyond our NDC and are happening in spit e of the expected external financial flows not materializing. Within the global context, however, this needs to be the exception rather than the rule. I also take th is opport unity at this COP to express our in tention to nationally review our NDC before the Paris Agreement takes effect in 2020. It will account for the programme s and actions that our present government has 6 initiated all of which will have a significant positive impact on Pakistan ’s demonstrable cont ribution towards global mitigation. Mr. President Our year ly sojourns to exotic climate COP destinations will remain an exercise i n futility unless we are willing to p olitically galvanize the enhanced support needed for enhanced action. To d ate, the $100 billion of climate finance remains a “pipe dream”, with very limited amount actually delivered on ground. Even this paltry amount h as been trickling through an extremel y complex financial infrastructure with very difficult and restrictive access and driven sometimes by priori ties of contributing co untries rather than the needs of developing countries. A lot will need to ch ange for t his climate of poor political deliver y to change. The Paris rule book needs to be finalized and operationalized with equity and transparency and be fully consistent w ith the principl e of “Common But Differentiated Responsibility”, which is at the heart o f Paris Agreement. The Warsaw mechani sm for Loss and Damage needs to be brought back from the cold storage. The GCF needs to be replenished with new and additional financing and its operationa l efficiency to be further enhanced to deliver faster and easier climate finance to developing count ries. Climate Adaptation needs to regain center stage along with Mitigation and clear “adaptation targets” 7 need to be agreed. Finally, t he progressi on in ambitions, t hrough the Talanoa dialogue, needs to reflect not just mitigation but also provision and d elivery of climate finance. Mr. President, We do also appreciate the launching of the first replenishment process of the GCF. However, i t must ta ke into account the current and future needs of the developing countries. Just to highlight the scal e, Pakist an alone requires US $ 40 billi on to meet its NDC mitigation target by 2030. Let me conclude by saying that climate politics risks falling off th e chart as far as climate change is concerned. Katowice is providing us an opportunity to bring it back on tr ack and w e have no option but to seize it. Pakistan remains committed and ready to play its part but we all have to forge a coordinated effort – “Change To gether ” to make sure we do not become the architects of our own extinction. I thank you.