AGE VAD. FA OIUeL, TUG DALEMOUUISS, Ldadles dla UCHUCINCT. A year ago in Paris we were celebrating a very big success. We adopted an agreement, which contrary to even the greatest optimists, has practically already come into force. That was possible because the basic minimum conditions were already in place this year. The Agreement has been ratified by over 55 parties to the Climate Convention, with more than 55% of the global greenhouse gases emissions from all countries of the world. This is the effect of going back to the roots of the Climate Convention. The aim of the climate policy has become to reduce increase of greenhouse gases concentration in the atmosphere as soon as possible, as effective and efficient as possible. The Paris Agreement states clearly that this objective can be achieved by the reduction of greenhouse gases emissions to the atmosphere, as well as, by the increase of sequestration by natural carbon sinks such as degraded soils and forests. The above mentioned actions are to improve air and water quality, protect biodiversity, stop the process of desertification, soil degradation and as a result increase the productivity of these soils in order to combat hunger and migration. It is also due to the fact that the Paris Agreement assumes that to face these threats, all states should take part in the process, voluntarily and with respect for its own economic specificity. An effective climate policy is of great importance to Poland, and that means the idea of sustainable development. The Kyoto protocol was a good example, where Poland was supposed to achieve a reduction of 6%, while in fact managed to achieve a significant surplus. Another good example of Poland’s interest in climate policy is the fact that a Pole was the president of the Climate Convention three times and Poland organized the Conference of the Parties twice (COP14 and COP19). Another fact showing how important climate policy is to Poland is the fact that our country would once again like to organize the Conference of the Parties in 2018. Poland would like to show, on the example of its economic circumstances how to attain ‘neutrality of emissions’ by using innovations, its own renewable energy sources and the use of carbon sequestration for the regeneration of soil and forests. All these eventually lead to the improvement of air and water quality, increase of biomass production, the protection of biodiversity and creation of jobs in rural areas. On the example of its own achievements Poland would like to suggest a research and implementation program on the subject of ‘Economic evaluation of CO2 concentration reduction in the atmosphere through sequestration by forests and reduction of emissions for the enetainahle devealanment af thea wrarld in the nnantave nfavara xe anwniial teen ctyyae pc pe Vig