Country Statement to the UN Climate Change Convention, COP 28 Ms. Iordanca Rodica Iordanov, Minister of Environment, Republic of Moldova Dubai, UAE, December 9, 2023 Esteemed President of COP28, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, • First, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the Government of the United Arab Emirates for hosting COP28 in Dubai and chairing this high -level forum. • Last year, COP 27 adopted a package of decisions and agreements affirming the commitments to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C, as well as boost the capacities, including financial for developing countries, designing the damage and loss fund, as other actions to speed up for climate change mitigation and adaptation. • Today, COP28 gathered double the number of participants to continue the political dialog and enable climate actions with even more vital initiatives, since the current progress is insufficient. • Moreover, observations point out that the current targets must be met and exceeded to tack le the consequences of climate change effectively and prevent its irreversible adverse effects. • The "portfolio of GHG emissions" of countries and the impact of climate change differ. Unfortunately, countries' capacities to respond to consequences caused b y climate change also disagree, significantly where geopolitical instability and disasters aggravate the situation. • The transition to net -zero requires a comprehensive action -oriented approach together with strengthening the capacities of countries to impl ement global and regional agenda through comprehensive and practical national actions, access to technologies, and financial resources by harnessing opportunities and benefits of "know -how," restoring climate -caused damages and losses, ensuring resilience. • Management of climate change issues requires complex reforms across energy, transport, agriculture, and others. Moreover, synergy and synchronizing domestic and transboundary measures are needed to efficiently address and prevent risks to the health and s afety of the population, ensure stable economic development, and protect ecosystems and the environment. • Moldova has experienced particularly severe effects of climate change every year and recognizes the importance of the climate actions, not only by defining the higher ambitions of reduction of GHG emissions and but also by implementing the policy measures and enabling green transition. • As an EU country candidate, Moldova strongly supports the European climate neutrality policy. • Moldova makes efforts to implement mitigation and adaptation mechanisms to protect the population and nature to ensure economic resilience and progress. Strengthening the national potential and the consistency of domestic actions, especially in the extension of forestry and land policy, diversification of energy sources, increasing renewables' capacities and promoting energy efficiency, fostering greening economy and decarbonization, implementing the adaptation framework. • For Moldova, the support of international partner s is essential in achieving commitments and providing input into regional and global low emissions and zero -net basket and efficiently implementing national adaptation policy. And taking the opportunity, I would like to thank the joint forces of our partne rs on sustainable development. • I would like to highlight that Moldova also aims to open a new chapter of the domestic climate agenda by developing carbon pricing mechanisms and green financing options, introducing taxonomy and climate criteria for assessi ng investments. • Here, I will reiterate what has already been mentioned - the importance of joint actions as an essential catalyst for change, effective partnership facilitating the access to and implementation of solutions, and implementation of "climate j ustice," especially for developing countries and vulnerable societies to ensure that nobody is left behind. • Last but not least - climate policy and actions must be evaluated not only through the goals achieved but also through the mindset change in society because what is happening now affects everyone and will be inherited by future generations if we do not take action now if we do not admit that input of everyone counts. I believe that we will find a consensus on major political decisions these days beca use there is no time for delay with increasing bills every day. And it is evident that there is no question of "whether to do"; now it is essential to agree on "how to do." Thank you!