REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA President Address by the President of the Republic of Macedonia, His Excellency, Dr. Gjorge Ivanov, At the High -Level Segment of the Climate Change Conference – COP22 Marrakech, 1 5 November 2016 1 Esteemed Excell encies, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am honor ed to share with you the views of the Republic of Macedonia. Arrogantly proclaiming ourselves a measure of all things, we, as humanity, have rejected the moral and ethical compass that has pinpointed our relationsh ip to nature. Rudderless, we have turned away and headed out of the way. Uncritically we have allowed technology, being our creation, to become the creat or of our needs. Artificial industrial systems have developed and expanded at the expense of natural ecosystems. We are destroy ing the world that we were entrusted with preserv ing. With our throw -away culture, we have turned our common home in to a landfill thus compromis ing the future of our descendants. We are already feel ing the consequences of such irresponsible behavior. Apart from the millions of political and economic migrants, we see the number of climat e and environmental migrants, who are searching for a digni fied life increase. To solve the problem, we cannot confine only to dealing with the consequences. We have to address the causes. Last year we gathered in Paris, where we adopted the Agreement on Climate Change almost unanimously. On November 4, just 10 days ago, this historic agreement went into effect. This confirms that, as humanity, we finally ceased to deny the problem and that there is enough polit ical will to face the reality of climate change. As a signatory country, the Republic of Macedonia is committed to the principles and objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We proved this commitment by being the 23rd country in the world to provide its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution to reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Although a developing country within the United Nations, the Republic of Macedonia goes a step further in meeting its obligations especially in reporting, where it is approaching the obligations of developed countries, including the European Union. Yet, the burden is too big, and our resources are limited. The Republic of Macedonia deserves fair and equitable treatment. To successfully implement the Paris Agreemen t, we need access to international financing mechanisms for climate change, such as the Green Climate Fund and technology transfer. Ladies and Gentlemen, We are here today in Marrakech to continue what we have started in Paris because we believe that the Paris Agreement is a roadmap that will take us back on track. But, to orient, we shall have to take the compass in our hand s. It requires long -term, fundamental changes in the production and consumption mode ls. Trading in carbon emissions without changing our lifestyle will not be profitable for our and for the future generations. We have to redefine the development concept which should be in harmony with nature, but not at the expense of nature. We pwill robably not be able to do everything, but we must certainly not stand aside and do nothin g. Climate change is a global phenomenon which requires global response o f the global community that believes in this mission. Only in this way we will enable the future generations to live with less suffering and with more dignity. Thank you.