Address by H.E. Ms. Gra țiela-Leocadia GA VRILESCU Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Environment Head of del egation of Romania Bonn, 16 November, 2017 Mr. President, Exce llences, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to tell you how h onored I am to intervene at this major event on climate change chaired by Fiji. I would also like to thank the Government of Germany and the city of Bonn for their hospitality and their excellent support. After this conference, the concept of Talanoa and the spirit of inclusiveness, friendliness and solidarity coming from the Pacific area will guide us in finding the best way s to approach the common challenges confronting our Planet and all of its communities. We will achieve good results only if we keep work ing together, focus our efforts and build upon the momentum of climate action. I am pleased to inform you that Romania decoupled its economic growth and the greenhouse gas emissions. The GHG emissions intensity decreased by 60% in 2015 in comparison with 2005. Further more, Romania signed last week the Declaration Because the Ocean, a part of the global response to climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, Year by year it bec ame clear that we need to strive to achieve the right balance between the needs of our communities and the need to live on a healthy Planet. Th is requires urgent action and commitment both on mitigation of the greenhouse gas emissions and on adaptation to climate change effects. We have all seen and experienced the increased intensity and frequency of extreme weather events, this year more than ever. Romania has also been affected by the type of events throwing lives and livelihoods in disarray around the world. It is therefore important that our work address es climate change in synerg y with the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and other international programs aiming at alleviat ing poverty and protect ing vulnerable human livelihoods and habitats. The debate s and the negotiations of our conference confirm that the international community remains strongly committed to the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Through this strategic document, a new era in global climate governance has begun. I am convinced that the Parties will find the wisdom to reach common ground on comprehensive implementation arrangements. Ladies and gentl emen, The progress obtained so far in preparing the Paris Work Programme must be consolidated and built upon, including agreed rules and increased transparency on the post -2020 climate regime, by the conclusion of COP 24. In 2018, in Poland, we need to take stock of progress on implementation and be prepa red to consider the latest relevant scien tific progress, identify ing new solutions for mitigation and a broader understanding of ambition. As a Member State of the European Union, Romania is fully commit ted to achieve our common climate goal s both in its national capacity and in cooperation with its EU partners. We should not lose the momentum on climate action built throughout this conference, and we are confident in its successful outcome. Thank you.