Page 1 of 3 22nd CONFERENCE OF PARTIES Marrakesh, 15 November 2016 • His Majesty, Mohammed the Sixth, King of Morocco • Excellencies, Heads of State and Government • United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon • Heads of Delegation and Senior Officials • Minister Salaheddine Mezouar, President of the 22nd Conference of Parties • Ms Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) • Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen I am pleased to address this important gathering. Page 2 of 3 I would like to thank His Majesty, King Mohammed the Sixth, as well as the Government and people of Morocco, for hosting us in this magnificent city of Marrakesh. The Paris Agreement reflects the international community’s determination to protect our environment. Signature and entry into force, were important milestones. But they do not slow the pace of climate change, on their own. Success means doing what we have agreed, and even exceeding those commitments, by harnessing science and technology, so that our planet can heal. It is also critical, to provide adequate support to mechanisms such as the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility. Page 3 of 3 However, experience has shown, that we will get even faster and better results, when governments work closely with the scientific community and the private sector. Rwanda’s Green Fund, Fonerwa, has already mobilised 100 million dollars for public-private projects, that drive innovation and build climate resilience. Recently, in Rwanda’s capital, the ambitious Kigali Amendment to the Montréal Protocol was passed. If fully implemented, this will prevent one-half of a degree of warming over the coming century, which is 25 percent of the Paris target. This shows that we have what it takes, to get things done, when we work together, with governments as key partners, or at least not standing in the way. The journey we have embarked on, is decades long. Sooner or later, one way or another, we will get to where we have to go, together. Thank you.