National Statement for the Government of St. Kitts -Nevis At COP27, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt Hon. Dr. Joyelle Clarke Minister of Environment, Climate Action and Constiuency Empowerment Presidents Prime Ministers Excellencies Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen I am honored to join you at this critical event, COP27, the most prominent world stage for Climate Action. Mr. President, St. Kitts a nd Nevis lend s its voice to the plight of Small Island Developing States to support transparent, robust, actionable pathways to address climate change impacts on lives and livelihoods. We have arrived here equipped with climate science that has never been clearer. To use a phrase coined by the ICDF, Taiwan, “Science enables action,” which informs each appropriate and practical step required to address our climate vulnerabilit ies. There are countries that d o not have the financial resources and sufficient human capital resources to respond to or even become fully conscious of the potential ravaging effects of climate change. Mr. President, no region of the world can escape the climate change experience. But, what we do know and experience are the devastating climate impacts of hurricanes, floods, droughts and their high cost. Our survival is severely threatened, particularly as SIDS. In my country, climat ic events disrupt the livelihoods of families whose income s depend on touris m and agricultu re. In many cases, it is a single mother, a taxi driver, a farmer, who due to flooding and a prolonged drought period. We face a vicious cycle of climate hazards, loss of lives, homes, income sources, scarcity of food and water, problems with health and wellness, higher cost of living, and the disruption of families. The glaring fragility of our SMALL State is magnif ied. The severity of LOSS and DAMAGE is traumatic. What, then, is the game changer? There is no action without addressing climate justice which embrac es climate finance, a perennial challenge for s SIDS. We must start by acknowl eding the vast difference in the economies of scale and fiscal inability to respond to such climate events as well as the problems of classification as a middle income countr y, based solely on GDP. In St. Kitts -Nevis, we have embarked on a journey of green possibilities. Our goal is to become a model sustainable Island state. Our energies are currently focused on unearthing geothermal potential. Our 39 year old friendship with the Republic of China, Taiwan supported our ren ewable e nery efforts. Together have produce d a 2.5 mega watt s of renewable energy to our citizens. Taiwan has partnered with many countries to reduce emissions. They are world leaders in renewable energy practices. COP27 is one of action and implementation and has been branded, “Together for implementation”. M r. President, St. Kitts -Nevis highly recommends the Republic of China, Taiwan as Observers. Your serious consideration will be highly appreciated. We need to join hands across the world. In particular, we have a St. Kitts -Nevis invitation to sing One Song. This is a song by one of our re nowned calypsonians who happens to be our Minister of Energy. Are we blindly waiting for 20 30……We shall sing ONE SONG ….. In the fight for climate action, climate justice and climate finance. Thank you for your kind attention.