1 United Nations Climate Change Conference November 06 -18, 2022 Sharm el -Sheikh, Egypt Resumed High Level Segment, November 15 -16, 2022 National Stateme nt by Honourable Shawn Edward, Minister of Education, Sustainable Development, Innovation, Science, Technology and Vocational Tra ining of SAINT LUCIA Mr. President, Excellencies, fellow delegates, like my colleagues from the Caribbean, I have traveled half the circumference of the globe to be here against the prevailing perception of most citizens of our small island developing states, who hold th e view that COP can best be described as an academic exercise of talk and inaction, because of its failure over the years to deliver concrete solutions to their climate related problems – problems they did not create. 2 Mr. President, an Implementation COP, this is what COP 27 is meant to be. Prior to departing my country a few days ago to be here, I witnessed first -hand the destruction caused by a weather system which affected the northern part of our 238 sq mile island. In the space of three hours, heavy rainfall led to the destruction of homes, businesses, vehicles, schools and other vital infrastructure. Within that short period, millio ns of dollars of damage was recorded. Mr. President, St. Lucia and other small island developing states are living the horrific effects of climate change on a daily basis - A situation we 3 did not create but are unjustly being made to pay for. The G overnment s of SIDS continue to experience a growing debt burden, forced to borrow beyond prudential levels to respond to the effects of climate change. This cycle of debt exacerbates the already debilitating fiscal position of SIDS and hinders our ability to not only treat with the issues of climate change but also provide b asic necessities to our people. 4 When will developed countries deliver on their promises to double adaptation finance towards making meaningful advances on our decisions, in support of the upcoming Global Goal on Adaptation ? When will we break the constant talk cycle by delivering on our promises to scale up adaptation grant finance and agree on a decision at COP 27 that goes beyond simply supporting the development of National Adaptation Plans, and provide support for their actual implementation ? When will major emit ters stop the back pedaling - where they commit to small gains in clean energy initiatives on one hand, while 5 simultaneously multiplying their investments and profits in fossil fuels on the other hand ? We, the people of St.Lucia, suffer the consequences of this hypocrisy. Mr. President, delegates, let us put people first! Addressing climate change requires a collaborative effort, one which transcends the boundaries of race, religion, geography, gender, political status or economic circumstance. A nation like Taiwan, though not recognized by the UN and its subsidiaries as a bona fi de state, 6 also ha s to contend with climate change, yet it is denied a seat at the negotiating table. The Government and people of Saint Lucia are grateful to the Government and people of Taiwa n for their unwavering support of our adaptation and mitigation programmes. Today Mr. President, Saint Lucia and the rest of the Caribbean call on world leaders, fellow delegates and stakeholders to truly make this COP27 the IMPLEMENTATION COP it is touted to be. 7 Developed countries and agencies that are, whether by deliberate bureaucratic means or otherwise, impeding access to the pledged billions of dollars to developing countri es for climate adaptation, must demonstrate greater sensitivity and honor their obligations to SIDS. I thank you!