Page 1 of 4 Statement by Honourable Fiame Naomi Mataafa Prime Minister of the Independent State of Samoa For the World Leaders Summit at the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 26) to the UNFCCC Glasgow, UK: 1 – 2 November 2021 Excellencies Distinguished Delegates Ladies and Gentlemen Climate change has long been an interwoven fabric of life for the Blue Pacific including Samo a over decades. As Small Island Developing States (SIDS), we first told the world that our coastlines were eroding, the sea level was rising and climate change was human -induced. Many did not take our concerns seriously; some wanted scientific evidence whi le others remained in denial. Now, the recent IPCC reports confirm all this and more. As humanity, there is no time for second guessing. W e need to act urgently and decisively with much higher climate ambition, to correct our mistakes t hat led to the cur rent climate crises. Page 2 of 4 We acknowledge efforts by all parties that have committed to ambitious climate action. However, it is concerning that there is still a wide emissions gap in meeting the 1.5°C goal. Even with limiting warming to 1.5°C, SIDS will continue to incur severe l oss and damage. Exceeding this will be catastrophic for us; hence the constant iteration by the Blue Pacific Leaders, that climate change is the single greatest threat to our people and islands. We recognize the double burden of addressing the parallel crises of climate change and the pandemic, but we stand to lose a lot more if we remain in a state of inaction. The COVID -19 pandemic should not delay ambitious climate action. Instead, sustainable economic recovery should be catalyzed through investments that are clean, climate -smart and in line with net zero emissions by 2050. The development of COVID -19 vaccines was the fastest in history. Its rollout around the world at large scale required a massive global coordinated effort. I often ponder on how we can push for this historical, united, urgent global response at the same massive scale to help us reach the 1.5 degrees Celsius promise of the Paris Agreement. For us as the Blue Pacific, we need to inject some of that urgency and ambitious actions, li ke what we achieved with the COVID19 vaccinations, to deliver the needed climate action. It is in Glasgow, that climate urgency enters the collective consciousness. We must ensure through commitments and our decisions at COP26, that we keep the hope of a 1.5 degree world. This is our point of no return. Page 3 of 4 But w e as SIDS, know that despite our best efforts, the real impact to reverse the cycle of decline we are in; relies on the will and commitment of oth ers. For this reason, we will persist to call on everyone especially the major emitters, to commit to ambitiou s emissions cuts by 2030; implement commitments consistent with the 1.5°C scenario and net zero global emissions by 2050. Nature based solutions should take precedence in our su stainable development efforts. Phasing out of coal plants and all fossil fuel subsidies and investments are critical. We continue to stress the importance of the delivery of the US 100 billion goal to ensuring th e implementation of ambitious mitigation commitments. However, funding for the root causes of climate change is exponentially greater than funding for the response to climate change. This must change. We need to ensure a new scaled up climate finance go al that builds on the USD100 billion floor. We must guarantee a balanced allocation of climate finance between mitigation and adaptation. Climate finance made available to SIDS are still insufficient and are mainly in the form of loans. SIDS must receive scaled up, adequate, predictable and long -term support from the international community to adapt. Loss and damage needs dedicated funding. COP 26 must address the long - term and permanent consequences of insufficient climate action. While we urge for COP 26 to conclude negotiation s on the Paris Rulebook, it is important that it adopts a Markets mechanism which delivers meaningful global emissions reductions. We must ensure that we continue to uphold the principle of environmental integrity and keep the Paris Agreement promise. This is critical when finalising COP26 outcomes. Page 4 of 4 Lastly but not the least, th e Ocean absorbs nearly a quarter of annual carbon dioxide emissions and plays a central role in regulating the Earth’s climate. The climate -ocean nexus is clear, thus oceans needs to feature more in the work of the UNFCCC. This is an important priority for the Blue Pacific. Furthermore, slow and onset events suc h as sea level rise due to climate change threatens the security of our maritime zones. This is why the Pacific Leaders have endorsed the Declaration on Preserving Maritime Zones in the face of Climate -Change Related Sea Level Rise. The Declaration states very clearly our region’s collective position and commitment to maintaining our maritime zones without reduction in the face of climate change related sea level rise. Excellencies, Climate change is at the heart of our vulnerabilities as nations and peoples. While we may be the worst affected, the real solution is not in our hands, especially when it comes to global emission reductions. However, through the COP26 negotiations and the multilateral process, we hope to shape the solutions to save our planet. There are no trade offs. We are negotiating the survival of our islands. Thank you.