1 STATEMENT DELIVERED BY THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT AND AVIATION, HONOURABLE KABINEH MOINAMA KALLON DURING THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES MEETING (COP 24) IN KATOWICE, POLAND FROM 2-14TH DECEMBER, 2018 Mr. President; Your Excellencies; Ministers; Members of the Diplomatic and Consular Corps; Members of the Fourth Estate; Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen; Mr. President, Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, I bring you warm greetings from His Excellency the President, the Government and People of Sierra Leone. We are delighted to team up and work with nations of the world to make planet earth a safe haven for humanity. We thank you Mr. President. Mr. President, His Excellency the President of Sierra Leone, His Excellency Julius Maada Bio would have love to share this platform with world leaders but nonetheless, I am pleased to bring you his greetings and the People of the Republic of Sierra Leone to your Presidency, the People of Poland and the Government and people for hosting this hopeful, decisive and historic conference which aims at advancing the implementation of the Paris Agreement signed in Paris in 2015 and ratified by participating Status. Mr. President, at the outset, I must re-echo our commitment to the Paris Agreement especially in the face of the current devastating effect that Climate Change has had on us in recent years and its potential for further devastation, if strong, consensus and concerted efforts are not harnessed. 2 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we can all agree that Climate Change is here and we must act swiftly as its impact is greatly felt in our respective countries. Yes, effect of climate is felt everywhere but what is clear and indisputable is the acuteness of those effect varies from country to country; region to region and continent to continent. Sierra Leone unfortunately is one country that has gravely suffered the impact of Climate Change and still remains vulnerable to Climate Change. Climate Change is known to have adversely affected the environment, Agriculture, Food Security, and even the lives and livelihood of large communities in Sierra Leone. Fishermen are also known to have lost their lives in storms and passenger boats have encountered weather-related accidents – even though some go unreported. Flooding is known to have affected agriculture and habitats of people in Sierra Leone and their suffering aggravated by the attending health problems of water-borne diseases (typhoid, dysentery, cholera and diarrhoea) due to lack of safe drinking water. Currently, Sierra Leone as a tropical climate with two distinct seasons (The Rainy and Dry seasons). The Dry Season and the rainy season had many years being suitable for Agriculture and other activities. But recently, the prolong dry spell within the raining season had been very worrisome and affecting every facet of lives. We are of great concern of a likelihood of draught in some areas if this continues. Our farmer, Ocean, socio and economic activities are all dependent on Early Warning Systems in order to adapt to the changing Climate. And our weak early warning system unlike other Countries has posed a great threat to our adaptive capability. The importance of providing robust support for urgent adaptation action is both urgent and desirable. 3 Mr. President, Several answers come to mind including the need to enable learning on the development and implementation of National Adaptation Plans and to facilitate support, to enhance finance flows for adaptation, to mainstream gender considerations, and to promote collaboration among relevant stakeholders and institutions. Mr. President, in order to adapt our ability to climate impacts, my Government is requesting developed countries to honour their obligation as part of their historical responsibilities as major contributor to the stock of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere accumulated over the last 150 to 200 years, which is the cause of climate change. Following this, at Copenhagen in 2009, developed countries committed towards a goal of $100 billion annually by 2020. In 2015, the Paris Agreement of UNFCCC emphasised the role of climate finance in strengthening the global response to climate change. Since then, developed countries have made various claims about climate finance flows. Some of the myths surrounding climate finance need to be demolished. And we should be vigilant and committed to make this planet a safer place for us and our generation to come. Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Climate finance should not only support adaptation and mitigation activities of developing countries in accordance with a country’s needs and priorities but we must consider Loss and Damage as an integral priority. Mr. President, ladies and Gentlemen, Sierra Leone has been making strides in Climate related actions and my Government New direction vision of integrating Climate Change into our National planning is at its mature stage. We have developed many adaptation projects to address adverse effects of climate change based on existing coping mechanisms and practices such as Develop and enact appropriate policies and regulations relevant to the 4 development of coastal communities, urban growth planning, and critical coastal ecosystems preservation and the Establishment of a National Sea- Level Observing System for Sierra Leone by next year. Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is Critical to note that we recognize the United Nations Frame Work Convention and Climate Change as a comprehensive, fair and inclusive framework for the adoption and implementation of the Paris agreement and to advance its implementation. Sierra Leone looks at this COP24 to establish a collective moment for countries to reflect on their current status of implementation for future action and support to finance the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The years ahead are crucial for all actors to take greater action in order to respect the objectives of the Paris Agreement and closing the gap between nations in the implementation of climate changes that are occurring in the world. The writing is on the wall as the Global Warming of 1.5°C Special report, by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned of a warmer planet and demanded unprecedented efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This, the report states, can be achieved through an increase in adaptation and mitigation investments, policy instruments, and accelerated technological innovation and behaviour changes. In short, it calls for collective efforts and collective action. Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, in light of this report, there is need to take decision at this Conference of Parties (COP24) to enhance the level of ambition committed under the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) by countries. Finally, Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Sierra Leone has the utmost confidence that we will achieve our collective goals under the convention and we must bear in mind the level of countries in the context of negotiations to 5 enhance transparency and flexibility as we focus on the development of guidelines on how the Paris Agreement’s provisions will be implemented across a wide range of issues including transparency, adaptation, emission reductions, provision of finance, capacity-building and technology during this very important Twenty Four Session of Conference of Parties (COP24). I thank you all for your kind attention.