NATIONAL STATEMENT BY H.E. ZUZANA ČAPUTOV Á PRESIDENT OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC UN Climate Change Conference (COP27) November 7, 2022, Egypt Excellences, Ladies and Gentlemen, This year’s extreme weather, across the world, reminds us, that it is not just the next generations, who will feel the impact of the climate crisis. For too long, we talked about the why and the how. Now it’s time to act. We need an equal focus on adaptation to the changing climate conditions. And on mitigating the negative impact of our actions on climate. While 90% of all emissions are already covered by the net zero target, we are still too far from a collective success. Global emissions continue to rise. It’s not enough to have targets. We must turn them into concrete national steps that will lead us to net zero. By 2030, Slovakia will cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 55% compared to 1990 levels. We are joining the Global Methane Pledge Initiative. And, we are starting the biggest de- carbonisation of our economy. This will reduce our industrial CO2 emissions by more than 40% until 2030. It is clear that the climate emergency will not wait until the current energy crisis is over. Short -sighted solutions, such as switching from gas to coal, will only speed up our planet’s destruction. In Slovakia, we are sticking to the plan to close down coal power plants next year, despite the record energy prices. We must move faster, towards clean energy and renewables, including geothermal. I am glad that Slovakia’s talents have developed solutions that will make the use of this energy possible anywhere in the world. This is good for our climate and our planet, as well as for our energy security. Green transition is neither easy nor cheap. It will often hit the most vulnerable. It must be just. The most affected countries need more of our support to cope. Since the adoption of the Paris Climate Agreement, Slovakia’s contribution to green finance has grown almost fivefold. We mainstream climate measures in our development assistance in Europe, Africa and Asia. In Kenya alone, we supported 16,000 farmers by planting 1 million cashew trees so their produce is local and sustainable. But governments alone won’t address the climate crisis. Private and innovative financing must step in, so everyone does their fair share. Excellences, The climate emergency is here and now. The ocean levels are rising. We are losing biodiversity at record speed. The global food crisis, induced by the climate change and worsened by Russ ia’s weaponisation of grain exports, is forcing millions of people out of their homes. These crises demonstrate our collective fragility. Our bolder commitments, our better and faster delivery on our climate targets, must make this COP a milestone. The milestone, which will transform our collective fragility into our collective resilience. Thank you.