Hon. Samuel Manetoali (MP), Minister of Environment, Climate Change, Disaster Management and Meteorology, Solomon Islands 16th November 2016, Marrakech, Morocco Mr. President, Your Majesties, Excellencies, fellow colleague Ministers Distinguished Del- egates, Ladies and Gentlemen, I bring greetings from the government and people of Solomon Islands. I thank the government and people of the Kingdom of Morocco for the warm hospitality and the excellent arrangements for this conference and congra t- ulate you on your Presidency. I am pleased to note, 193 Parties have since signed the Paris Agreement with 110 countries including Solomon Islands ratifying the Agreement in record time. This speaks of the global political commitment to combat cli- mate change. We must maintain the momentum here in Morocco. Today we have a run away climate, climate change is accelerating at an unprecedented level. Solomon Islands is located in a climate hotspot and faces the brunt of sea level rise three times the global average and the fre- quent threats of severe tropical cyclones. My delegation, fellow LDCs and SIDS remain fully engaged and optimistic in seeking a global solution to this global threat to humanity. Mr. President, The Paris Agreement remains off track in stabi lizing global temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. This worrying trend demands us to enhance pre 2020 ambition action. We therefore call on countries who have not ratified the second Doha Amendment of the Kyoto Protoc ol to do so as soon as possible. We are confident that all countries will come forward with more ambitious Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) that will put us on a 1.5 de- grees Celsius pathway, and to this end, those with historical responsibility and major emitters must take leadership. Here in Marrakesh, we must work with a sense of urgency and purpose to operationalize the Agreement. Means of implementations under the Agreement must now flow in to support the implementation of our submit- ted NDC s. In this regards Solomon Islands NDC include a number of re- newable energy projects. These projects can only be realized with interna- tional support. Mr. President, I am pleased to note the work launched here in Marrakesh under selected elements of the Paris Agreement. The Conference must act swiftly in es- tablishing rules, modalities and institutions to enhance the ambition and implementation of the Paris Agreement. The Conference of Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Par- is Agreement (CMA) must meet next year and begin to adopt decisions on issues that are mature. We must refrain from postponing climate action. It is our hope, CMA will also allocate elements of the Paris Agreement that are not on any of the agendas of our Climate multilateral process to rele- vant bodies to action. Mr. President, Adaptation remains an important pillar of the Paris Agreement and to the Solomon Islands. I hope the draft procedural decision of having the Adapt a- tion Fund serve the Paris Agreement submit ted by developing countries is considered and adopted if not in Marrakesh then in Bonn next year. Financial resource flows for Adaptation must be significantly increased based on grants and where possible on concessional finance. Accessing these resource s must be made less cumbersome, easy to track and ac- count for, and aligned with national needs and systems. Mr. President, Climate change demands the cooperation of all, and no one must be left behind including the 23 million people of the Republic of China (Taiwan). Solomon Islands fully supports Taiwan’s meaningful participation in the UNFCCC process and urge Parties to consider and bring Taiwan into the process.. Mr. President, Climate change is a man-made problem and therefore can be solved by the concerted efforts of the whole of humanity. The Paris Agreement is not flawless but it is a good starting point and must be made to work beginning here in Marrakesh Before closing I join others in conveying our sympathy to the Government and people of New Zealand on the lives lost and damaged caused by last week's earthquake. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. I thank you all!