1 Statement by Solomon Islands Honorable Mr. Dickson Panakitasi Mua, Minister for Forestry and Research, Ministry of Forestry and Research, Solomon Islands COP2 7 Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, 15 November 2022 Mister President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am honored to speak on behalf of the Government and the People of Solomo n Islands. I represent a Small Island Developing State in the Blue Pacific Ocean, which has the second highest exposure to disaster risk globally, as outlined in the 2021 World Risk Report. Mister President, The science is unequivocal, and the impacts of climate change are clear across the globe and at unprecedented levels. Last week, a trough caused significant flooding that destroyed homes, food gardens and transport infrastructure in my country. These realities confront us now and will intensify in scale and frequency if inaction and ambitions remain off target from the 1.5 degrees limit. We are in a constant mode of recovery from weather extremes that are driven by climate change. This is a burden that we are already 2 struggling with and we cannot afford nor wish to pass on to the next generation s. We therefore urge the global community to step up, shift the mode of work to action and implementation. Mister President, Our goal to remain within 1.5 degrees is reachable if global coal use must fall between 67% and 82% by 2030, and effectively stop by 2050 across all sectors. We call for the phasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies and more investment to accelerate low carbon development pathways and building climate resilience. Mister President, Loss and damage is a key priority for my country. We must take a decision to establish a loss and damage fund at COP27, and commit to operationalize the fund by COP28 in 2023. Mister President, Solomon Islands would want to see the Mitigation Work Program operational as soon as possible and remind Parties of the urgency to enhance ambition and action if we are serious about closing the emission gap. Major emitters must take the lead in drasticall y reducing their emissions. Mister President, Developed country Parties need to fulfill their promise and deliver on the 100-billion -dollar goal without any further delay. We need clarity on how and when the doubling of adaptation finance by 2025 as agree d at Glasgow will be delivered. The Green Climate Fund, Adaptation Fund and Global Environment Facility can only be relevant to Solomon Islands if they further simplify access 3 procedures and deliver grant -based financing for adaptation that is, fit for purpose and impactful right down to Indigenous Peoples, who have proven to be the most effective guardians of nature and ocean. Mister President, Climate change is inextricably linked to ocean change, and the increasing risks presented by Climate Change threatens the health and value of our ocean, our economic prosperity, identity, and livelihoods. I therefore urge that ocean be given equal recognition and greater prominence in the UNFCCC. For us, climate change is ocean change. Mister President, Let us not forget that beyond these walls, millions throughout the world, including our own children we left at home, are eagerly waiting for a positive outcome from Sharm El-Sheikh. Let us put our differences aside and ensure that COP27 is truly where all implementation of the Paris Agreement begins. I thank you.