1 Statement by Solomon Islands at the High Level Segment of COP23 Melchior Mataki Ministry of Environment, Climate Change, Disaster Management & Meteorology Thursday 16th November, 2017 Bula Vinaka Mr. President, This is a historic COP for us, after two decades of COP, I am indeed proud to see a first Island President take on the Presidency of COP 23. Even more special to see a Pacific Islander and a neighbour take on the global task. Solomon Islands assure you of our support during your tenure in office. The 2015 Paris Agreement is a near universal Agreement signed by 195 countries and ratified by 170 Parties. We have a mandate to operationalize the Agreement by 2018. Regrettably, progress on the Paris Agreement work programme is slow. Substantiv e discussions have yet to begin. A clear and defined roadmap into 2018 with milestone s to complete our work is needed before we leave Bonn. Ambition under the Paris Agreement remains low. To date we have a run-away climate change, global temperature conti nues to rise to 1.1 degrees Celsius above pre industrial level. Ocean acidification is now at 403 parts per million after the Paris Agreement was adopted. We are heading for a 3 degrees Celsius world; as such we need to decarbonize our economies, and keep coal in the ground. Mr. President, We are committed to work with you through the Talanoa Dialogue review and enhance our Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs ) to put us back on a 1.5 degrees Celsius trajectory, guided by IPCC’s Special 1.5 degrees Celsius Report due out next year. This should preserve the credibility and integrity of the Paris Agreement. My delegation calls for more Pre-2020 action, in particular those who have not signed the Doha Amendment to do so with a sense of urgency to put the Paris Agreement on a firmer foundation by 2020. 2 On adaptation, Solomon Islands considers the Adaptation Fund to serve the Paris Agreement a natural step, we support the draft decision by G77 and China and hope to see this effected at this COP. On Loss and Damage (L&D), as climate change continues to define our future, we look to your leadership, to have L&D be a standing Subsidiary Bodies Agenda noting we have loss and damage activities in SBI 2018 and 2019. Mr. President, Sadly the United States of America have announced its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Solomon Islands find this regrettable. We call on the United States to take leadership in climate action, and not to stand in the way of current negotiations. Combating climate change requires our collective action; every country should be part of the solution, Solomon Islands supports the Republic of China (Taiwan)’s meaningful participation within the UNFCCC process. Let Taiwan help! Solomon Islands welcome s the signing of the World Bank and Green Climate Fund Accreditation Master Agreement on Monday this week. This development will see funds roll out for our Tina River Hydro power Project. Solomon Islands celebrates the operationalization of the local communities and indigenous People’s platform and look forward to discussion on the struc ture of the engagement of the Platform with the UNFCCC process. “ Below 1.5 degrees to stay alive” remains our call. The Paris Agreement is our last line of defense; we must work constructivel y to make the Agreement work for humanity. Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.