1 Statement by Solomon Islands Dr Melchior Mataki Permanent Secretary/MECDM 9th December 2023 Mr. President Excellencies Ladies and Gentlemen, I have the honor to speak on behalf of the Government and People of Solomon Islands. We congratulate you on your election to the COP Presidency. We acknowledge and appreciate your leadership in the historical early decision on the operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund last week. We applaud the leadership of parties that have made pledges to capitalize this fund and call on other major emitters to do so. Nevertheless, we must address the root cause of climate change and the driver of loss and damage – by cutting and eliminating greenhouse gas emissions. The Solomon Islands wish to exp ress our serious concern with the lack of progress in the first Global Stock Take (GST) and Global Goal on Adaptation. We are clearly off track with respect to the goals of the Paris Agreement and the window for meaningful change is closing up. This first GST must be forward looking, ambitious and inform t he next NDC s, and includ e tripling of renewable global renewable energy capacity by 2030, phase out fossil fuels, and mobiliz e finance for adaptation, mitigation, and loss and damage consistent with keeping global temperature rise below 1.5 degrees. We all know that climate finance is a critical enabler of actions to address climate change. As such, climate finance must be defined. For a highly vulnerable country such as the Solomon Islands, financial resources mobilize d to address adaptation and mitigation must be significantly grant -based, predictable, transformational and unencumbered with onerous access processes as experienced with the Green Climate Fund, Global Environment Facility and other multilateral funds. Solomon Islands recognizes the inextricable connectivity between climate change and our ocean, which defines who we are as a people. As indigenous guardians of our ocean space, we are deeply concerned with the negative impacts of climate change on our ocea n ecosystems, fishery resource, islands and li velihoods. We therefore urge and call for more serious treatment of ocean in the UNFCCC bodies and processes. We are concern ed with the lack of substantive decision on Agriculture and the lack of its serious treatment in critical workstreams such as Global Stocktake. On Gender and Climate 2 Change, we continue to go around c ircles on this important work stream. The So lomon Islands need climate finance to support gender respons ive and targeted programmes at the community level. Mr. President, these COP s have been going on for very a long time. Our children and youths are expecting us to do the right and needful, to arrest, reverse and stop greenhouse gas emissions to rein in climate change. We can negotiate as parties here, but it is clear, we cannot negotiate with climate change, and those of us that are disproportionately impacted by it, urge parties with historical responsibility and other major emitters to emancipate yourselves from fossil fuel addiction. I thank you!