1 South Sudan National Statement At The Twenty Seventh Session Of The Conference Of The Parties (Cop 27) To The United Nations Framework Convention On Climate Change On 15th November 2022 - Sharm El Sheik h, Egypt Presented by Hon. Josephine Napwon Cosmos Minister of Environment a nd Forestry Republic of South Sudan Mr. President Hon. Mi nisters Heads of Delegations Distinguished guests Ladies and Gentlemen Good Morning, On the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to convey to you the greetings and w ell wishes of H.E Sal va Kiir Mayardit, President of the Republic of South Suda n, who is unable to attend this COP because of pressing issues back home. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the people and government of Egypt for the excellen t hospitality accorde d to my deleg ation. 2 Mr. President, Though with negligible emissions, The Climate Crises is wors ening i n South Sudan, 8 out of the 10 states in South Sudan are currently flooded and over 2 million people are internally displaced an d have lost their livelihoods. Besides the flooding, droughts, excessive heat, heat waves, hapha zard rain patterns have r esulted in crop failure thus impacting the livelihoods of our people. Over 60% of our people are now categorized as food insecure. Therefore, lifesaving inter ventions are needed urgently else the prospect of climate induced displac ement and climate refugee s will become a new normal. To address th e impacts of climate change, environmental degradation, Biodiversity loss and pollution, Sout h Sudan besides its amb itious 2nd Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC ) and its first Nation al Adaptation Plan (NAP) and the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NABSAP), is currently develop ing a cost-effective nature - based solutions to add ress the recurring drou ghts, floods, land degradation, deforestation, crop s failure, and biodive rsity loss. Mr. Presid ent, Our environment requires us to change our attitudes and to embark on ambitious Nature -based solutions by actively protecting, s ustainably managing and restoring degraded ecosystems that are a source of our food, water, energy, wealth, and livelihoo ds. As a region most affected by the impacts of Climate Ch ange, South Sudan would like to underscore the importance of Adaptation. A b alance 3 between mitigati on and adaptation has to be adopted. Therefore, 50% of the funds raised h as to be earmarked for Ad aptation Projects. On climate finance, South Sudan believes that the 100 billion dollars that was arbitrarily set is no longer sufficie nt. This amount is to b e revised upwards. We therefore appeal to the developed countries to fulf il their pledges and to a vail the necessary funds for Adaptation projects. On the emissions gap, it is abundantly clear that we are falling behind to limit the warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. W e therefore appeal to all parties that ha ve not submitted the ir NDCs to do so urgently and for the developed countries parties to drastically cut their emissions such that we keep the 1.5 degrees goal alive. On Loss and Damage, South Sudan wo uld like to see to it that all outstanding issues regarding the establish ment of the loss and damag e fund are to be resolved in this COP. Last but not least, I wish to affirm the political will and commitment of the Government of the Republic of South S udan in implementing the outcomes of COP27. I thank you.