STATEMENT BY THE MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS OF SOUTH AFRICA, H.E. DR EDNA MOLEWA COP22/CMP12/CMA1 MARRAKESH, MOROCCO 16 NOVEMBER 2016 Mr. President, | would like to convey the highest regards of His Excellency President Jacob Zuma and the people of South Africa to His Majesty King Mohammed the Sixth. We express our heartfelt thanks to the Moroccan government and people for their warm hospitality. Shukran Jazeelan! Your Excellency, Minister Salaheddine Mezouar, we congratulate you on your election as President of this Climate Change Conference. South Africa associates itself with the statement delivered by Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, as well as with the statement delivered by Egypt on behalf of the Africa Group South Africa is proud to count ourselves among the 110 Parties that have ratified the Paris Agreement so far. The Agreement is now in force. This bears testimony to the unwavering commitment and the unified Purpose of the international community to combat global climate change. Like other developing regions, the African countries are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change including increased food and water insecurity, resulting in hunger, poverty and disease. If we are to achieve Our goal of limiting global temperature increase to well below 2 degrees Celsius and SUCCessfully meet the 1.5 degree Celsius goal, and the just transition to low-carbon, inclusive, Climate resilient €conomies and Societies, we Must close ambition Japs and accelerate Pre-2020 action, To this end: ° Firstly, the Kyoto Protocol] Doha Amendment Should enter into force now; * Second) implementation Support for developing Countries Should be dollar Undertaking for ambitious Pre-2020 action; ang e Thirdly, adaptation Should be Prioritiseg, Key to the SUCCess of COP22, is to achieve Significant technical Progress to fully Sperationalise the Paris Agreement by 2020 and we are We have indeed come a long way, and it is UP to Us to stay the course, | thank you.