Statement of Hon. Josephine Napwon Cosmos, Minister of Environment and Forestry of the Republic of South Sudan at the High Level Segment of the UN Cl imate Change Conference (COP 22) Marrakech, on 16th November 2016 Mr President, Your Excellencies, Disting uished guest, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of my Minister, the government and the people of South Sudan, I would like to express our gratitude and thanks to the government and people of the Royal Kingdom of Morocco for their hospitality and for hosting this memorable COP after Paris. Mr President, South Sudan though the newest nation with negligible emissions has signed the Paris Agreement and is now in the process of ratifying the agreement by year end. Climate change is on e of the gravest challenges facing South Sudan. The country is experiencing haphazard rain patterns, excessive temperatures and heat waves, invasion of exotic weed species and prolonged dro ughts and desertification. With the early entering to force of the Paris Agreement, South Suda n expects COP22 to be an implementation COP and that the articles of the Paris Agreement will be operationalized and implemented to the letter and spirit. South Sudan would like to see the following: 1. The Developed Countries Parties exert more efforts to reduce / cut down their emissions such that the 1.50 C goal is not exceeded. 2. For the developing countries and the least developed countries to be able to fight and respond to climate Change impacts, adequate ly through predictable and sustainable long term finance/ funding for Adaptation and Mitigation projects which is to be availed by the developed countries. The 100 billion dollars figure is inadequate; this figure should be in the trillions. 3. Capacity building and Technology transfer is paramount if South Sudan is to embark on a green Carbon development trajectory. Mr President, let us rise to the challenge. L et us tackle climate change together because there is no other planet that the human race will move to. Thank you.