Republic of Suriname 1/2 Statement by H.E. Sergio AKIEMBOTO, Minister of Natural Resources of the Republic of Suriname, at the Conference of the Parties to the 25th session of the United Nations Fra mework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Madrid, 1 1 December 2019 Greetings and salutations All protocols observed. As we are gathering for the 25 th time to jointly find solutions to avert the negative impact s of climate change, allow me to draw your attention to the following. Suriname, notwithstanding its 93% forest coverage, is with an extensive low-lying coastal zone highly vulnerable, as all other low -lying coastal states and islands. The world’s effort s to increase the resilience of the developing countries are not resulting yet in the desired results. Figures from the IPCC, UNEP and others, show that industrialized countries are not capable of effectively curbing the ir CO2 emissions, nor is it certain that this will happen in the near future. Although emitting less, they are by far not achie ving a carbon neutral position. The new call is to increase our collective ambition through enhancement of our NDC s. However, even with the implementation of all commitments, including those announced at the Climate Action 2019 Summit, we will not achieve the 1.5o C target. It is clear that one vital factor is not getting the appreciation it rightfully deserves: intact forests. In particular, the permanent, evergreen, tropical forests which continuously and year-round provide us with oxygen, while sequestering carbon. Many publications and reports reveal that the tropical forests sequester nearly one fourth of the emitted carbon. For these reasons, the low valuation of tropical forests, with all its consequences, is unacceptable. 2/2 Madam President, Last February, Suriname, the most forested country in the world, convened the first meeting of the H igh Forest cover Low Deforestation developing countries. The outcome document, called the Krutu of Paramaribo Joint Declaration on Climate Finance Mobilization, strongly reaffirms the commitment of the HFLD developing countries to continue their fight against t he impacts of climate change. I t emphasizes the urgent need to facilitate access for HFLD developing countries to international climate finance, including multilateral finance mechanisms and cooperation with the public and private sector. As globally acknowledged N ature Based Solutions can be 30% of the solution in the fight against climate change. Our tropical forest s are an effective weapon to help eradicate the climate crisis. This climate -proofed technology needs also your support. We therefore look forward to work together to employ the tropical forest s in an efficient way to curb emissions. Let us stop contributing to the possibilities of our own defeat. Time is not on our side. Suriname is doing its part, and we are proud to announce that we have submitted our NDCs, recently. Together with other HFLD developing countries we are ready for action. With your contribution, we can win the battle. I thank you.