THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SURINAME | SPEAKING NOTES Conference of the Parties d.d. 8-11-2022 Leaders of the world, One year passed since COP26. Today we are all more aware, that concrete actions are needed now, instead of more pledges, talks and promises for the future. Last year, in Glasgow, we expressed, our disappointment about the poor efforts industrialized countries made to stay below 1.5 C. The past twelve months the world experienced unprecedented floods, off-season hurricanes, severe droughts and wild fires. We are living the horrors of climate change, and yet, we see no significant actions to live up to the Paris agreement. I am standing here as a representative of a very small group of countries. A group of only three countries that are still carbon negative. Suriname is also part of a larger grouping of eleven High Forest, Low Deforestation countries. Our nation is also part of the grouping of fifty-one Small Island Developing and Low-lying Coastal States. Pagina 1 van 5 Suriname’s contribution to global emissions is 0.01% and we are a net carbon sink, we are in fact carbon negative. Despite this, we are highly vulnerable to climate impacts. Suriname has a low-lying vulnerable coast that is threatened due to sea level rise. Suriname has taken bold decisions to prepare itself: oWe have created a strong institutional and policy framework, with a National Climate Change Policy, Strategy and Action Plan, a National Adaptation Plan, and sectoral policies that give high priority to climate objectives. oWith assistance from the IDB, we have transformed our NDC into an Investment Plan with an estimated $700 Million US Dollars in investments. Suriname is ready for a full implementation of its NDCs to deliver the results we promise. Chair, to protect ourselves from the ravages of sea level rise, Suriname has committed to protect our mangrove forests, from our limited State Budget. Suriname is ready to submit next to its Third National Communication, its Biennial Update Report, that will allow for the monetization of vintage carbon credits. Pagina 2 van 5 Next year we will sign our first National Climate Agreement. This agreement will show our strong commitment to maintain our forests and carbon stock, to prioritize clean energy and to promote the integration of climate mitigation and adaptation actions in our development policies. We are building our national technical capacity and expertise, with support of international organizations, to be effective in preparation, design and implementation. Our energy supply is already for fifty percent renewable, and we are adding more. Chair, in the wider Caribbean, many of us, almost daily have to address, climate change occurrences, through external borrowing, because we lack the resources. We are worried. We receive no recognition for the efforts and investments we made, even if our contribution to the climate crisis is minute. We need support now to include loss and damage in the climate financing structure. Chair, once these funds become available, we also need to simplify the procedures for access to climate finance and make the appraisal period more efficient and effective. Pagina 3 van 5 We cannot wait years to receive climate finance. Make it simple, and accessible, and make it work; do not create another international bureaucracy. We appreciate the efforts of UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres to assist in changing the ranking system of countries, so that vulnerability to climate change is taken into account. Again, we call upon all to take immediate action to channel resources to where it is most needed. The Bretton Woods institutes should incorporate climate change in their economic recovery programs in a more effective way. Climate change has become a part of the economic paradigm. We call upon the international community, to put its money, where its mouth is. The international community has promised billions, but thus far, too little has materialized. Chair, promises made, must be kept. Therefore, on behalf of our children we urgently call on the historic emitters to do more and save our world. We are doing our part. God bless you all. *** Pagina 4 van 5