STATEMENT BY THE RT HON. PRIME MINISTER OF THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND DR B.SIBUSISO DLAMINI AT THE HIGH LEVEL MEETING OF COP 23 BONN 16 NOVEMBER 2017 President of COP 23, CMP13 and CMA 2, Excellencies, Honourable Ministers Distinguished delegates • Honoured to address the UN Climate Change Conference, • Message of greetings, thank Governemnt of Fiji and German for hosting. • Conference in Bonn is next step for the Paris Agreement, after entering into force last November where it mark the beginning of its implementation, • It calls upon governments to implenet the Paris Agreement and accelerate the transformation to sustainable development, build resilient and cliamte safe developments, • This conference brings us closer to an agreed enabling framework that makes the Pari Agreement to be fully operational and support the needs for all nations to achieve their climate change goals, which set out to limit the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and, in fact, to pursue efforts to limit that figure to 1.5 °C. • It recognised the need to support developing countries in achieving effective implementation of this Agreement, sought to enhance adaptive capacity, strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability t o climate change, with a view to contributing to sustainable development and ensuring an adequate adaptation response in the context of the temperature goal and means of support for their action. • The Agreement also sets a long -term vision on the importanc e of fully realizing technological development and transfer, in order to improve resilience to climate change and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Especially important, it committed developed countries to provide financial resources to assist developin g countries with respect to both mitigation and adaptation in continuation of their existing obligations under the Convention, while other countries were encouraged to provide or continue to provide such support voluntarily. It also recognised the need to enhance the capacity and ability of developing countries, stating that capacity -building activities should be enhanced through appropriate institutional arrangements. And finally it established a transparency framework and called for a global stocktake t o be undertaken every 5 years to periodically take stock of the implementation of the Agreement. • Swaziland is in the aftermath of the worst drought for almost 20 years. While the cause was a cyclical weather pattern called El Nino it came on the back of an irrefutable climate change for the worse that has characterised the past years in certain low -veld areas of the country. This drought has created very severe hardship in those areas with food and water insecurity. Observed p eriodic bursts of rain in this year’s rainfall season will simply not help in the short term and the number of people requiring help is still projected to rise to aroun d 200,000 over the period ahead. • While our own carbon footprint is tiny in relation to the rest of the world, we m ust still play our part in contributing to a global climate action. To achieve that we need resources for the high front-end cost of the most effective forms of renewable energy – wind and solar power. We adopted a National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) and a National Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan (NCCSAP) that needs support to build a resilient country, improve our adaptive capacity while going on with our sustanable developmet in the low carbon emission platform. These, among other things seek to set up and/or strengthen the necessary institutional arrangements and to create a conducive legal environment. Government is in the process of formulating a Climate Change bill as part of the implementation of the NCCP and NCCSAP. We are, in the meantime, put together a project ed efforts that will enable us to access funds from the Green Climate Fund with assistance coming from the African Development Bank, The Commonwealth and the Green Climate Fund readiness program. • Swaziland calls upon all nations to work towards completeing the “Rule Book ” for the Paris Agreement in 201 8 so as to be adopted well before 2020. • Please you reminded to insert a paragraph calling for the inclussion of Taiwan to the climate chang e process so as to take its approariate climate action. “Statement should be made in a period of 3 minutes.”