Speech of H.E. Gulmahmadzoda Davlatshoh - Chairman of the Committee for Environmental Protection under the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan at the 25th Conference of UNFCCC December, 2019, Madrid, Spain Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, to express my gratitude to the Government of Spain and the UNFCCC Secretariat for creating favorable conditions for the work of this conference during such short time. Such events, as this Conference express the aspirations of Governments and relevant international organizations to strengthen international cooperation in the field of climate change. Among the countries of the Eurasian region, Tajikistan is the mos t vulnerable country to climate change with a low level of adaptation potential. Climate change is already having and will continue to have a negative impact on th e sustainable development of our country’s economy. The researches by our experts over many y ears shows the increasing impact of climate change on the nature and socio -economic situation of the country and the region. The situation is aggravated by the country’s low preparedness to confront large -scale disaster risks. The country supports the effo rts of the global community to limit the consumption of fossil carbon fuels, increase the use of renewable energy sources, restore forests and improve land use. Systematic monitoring and appropriate adaptation measures contribute both to the conservation o f fragile mountain ecosystems and to the sustainable use of natural resources. The efficient use of water resources, which are the most vulnerable, play a big role in achieving the sustainable Development Goals. Over the past fifteen years, Tajikistan toge ther with UN agencies, has made a number of efforts in this direction within the framework of global initiatives as the “International Year of Freshwater, 2003”, the International Decade of Action “Water for life, 2005 -2015” and the “International Year of Water Cooperation, 2013”. Within the framework of the new decade “Water for Sustainable Development, 2018 -2028” initiated by Tajikistan, favorable opportunities can be formed for cooperation towards the rational use of water resources and the provision of drinking water to the population of various countries. All these initiatives have made a valuable contribution to deepening the irreplaceable role of water for life on our planet. Risk associated with climate change and adaptation measures to reduce the e ffects of these risks on the population and key sectors of the economy are important elements of the National Development Strategy of Tajikistan until 2030. In October 2019, the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan adopted the National Strategy for Ada ptation to Climate Change in the Republic of Tajikistan until 2030. As part of its commitments, the country submitted the Third National Communication Report to the Convention Secretariat and at present time, the Fourth Report is under development. Currently in Tajikistan a regular two -year system of accounting and reporting on greenhouse gas emissions is being introduced and monitoring system and verification of measures will be created. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important that the further development of hydropower based on renewable energy sources is a priority for Tajikistan. Moreover, Tajikistan is developing long -term plans to provide clean energy. Our country impart particular importance on taking of adaptation measures, which are an important component of sustainable development and due to its economic opportunities and with the support of the world community, will make every effort to achieve common goals in the field of climate change and sustai nable developm ent. The solution of existing problems in the field of reducing the negative effects of climate change, in the context of global development, requires us to carry out collective efforts and implement urgent and long -term measures. We hope tha t developed countries, UN agencies, international and regional organizations, international financial institutions will make efforts to cooperate in addressing important issues of adaptation to climate change and reduce its stress. Thank you for attention.