-Unofficial Translation - Statement by H.E. Pol. Gen. Phatcharavat Wongsuwan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of the Kingdom of Thailand, at the High -Level Segment of the 28th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP28 ) 9 December 2023 at Plenary Hall s 1 – 2, Expo City, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, 1. Allow me to begin by congratulating the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the COP28 Presidency and for hosting this meeting here in the magnificent city of Dubai. I believe that with the global community gather ed here, we will have a progressive and succes sful COP. 2. Both Thailand and the Thai people are increasingly aware of climate change and I would like to reaffirm that Thailand has delivered on our pledges. Thailand joins COP28 today with clear and concrete national actions. 3. First and foremost, Thailand is revising our NDC Action Plan on Mitigation which would cover all economic sector. We are expected to have our peak emissions by 2025 and we will continue to build enabling environment to cater to the rapid change while leaving no one behind. 4. Second, we are in the process of enacting our first Climate Change Act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and enhance capacity on climate change adaptation in every sector. Emphasis is also placed on finance mechanisms that are suitable and accessible to support a systematic transition to a Net -Zero society. 5. Finally, Thailand has revised the National Adaptation Plan, a key framework to help combat the impacts of and build immunity against climate change. Thailand will also support the Global Goal on Adaptation. Mr. President, 6. Thailand is using the agricultural sector as a n example for climate change adaptation, in which Green house Gas emission s are reduced in tandem with the preservation of food security. This can be seen through the “Strengthening Climate -Smart Rice Farming Project” that has received support from the Green Climate Fund. 7. Let me reiterate that the mobilization of 100 billion US dollars per year by 2025 to support climate action is crucial for developing countries to achieve their climate goals. - 2 - 8. As a stake Party, Thailand is pleased that the operationalisation of the Loss and Damage Fund will gain clarity at COP28. I sincerely hope that the first ever Global Stocktake will pave the way for a 1.5 degree Celsius pathway in line with the Paris Agreement. 9. Mr. President, o ur one and only planet is telling us that 2023 will be recorded as the hottest year ever in history. It is, therefore, high time that we take action together to save this planet for future generations. Thank you.