1 Statement by H.E. Mr. Varawut Silpa -archa Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of the Kingdom of Thailand At the High -Level Segment of the 27th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP27) the 17th Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP17) and the 4th Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Paris Agreement (CMA4) 15 November 2022, Sharm el -Sheikh, Arab Republic of Egypt Mr. President, Excellencies, Distinguished delegates, A very Good morning and สวัสดีครับ Allow me to begin by congratulating the Government of Egypt as they take on the role of COP27 presiden cy and extend our appreciation for the hosting of the conference here in the spectacular Sharm El-Sheikh. Thailand strongly believe s that as the world convene s here in Egypt, we will have a progressive and successful COP. Mr. President, Since COP26, Thailand has walked the talk, turning words into action s. We arrived at COP27 with our revised LT-LEDS with 2050 Carbon Neutrality, 2065 Net-zero Emission target, as well as an enhanced NDC, aiming to reduce 40% of our emissions by 2030 with international support. Thailand is in the fight against adverse impacts of climate change like the rest of the world. The “Sufficiency Economy Philosophy,” pioneered by His Late Majesty King Rama 9, has been the core guiding principle for the development of our National Adaptation Plan, particularly to promote climate -resilient communities. Moreover, Thailand is actively promoting the Bio -Circular -Green Econom ic Model. As the host of APEC, we are optimistic that the Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy will be the key outcome that helps to synergize cooperation for sustainable growth, climate actions, biodiversity conservation, and waste management. 2 Mr. President, No one is spared from climate -induced disasters. In response, we have accelerated our mitigation actions in all sectors. We aim to increase the production of zero-emission vehicles to 30% by 2030, the share of renewables in electricity generation by at least 50% by 2050 and support the commercialization of carbon dioxide removal technologies before 2040. We are also promoting substitutions in cement and cooling industries and piloting on alternative rice farming technique. We also aim to increase our forest area to 55% to boost our carbon sink by 2037. Meanwhile, to explore the Cooperative Approach es, Thailand has prepared the National Guidelines and Mechanisms on Carbon Credit Management and is one of the first countries to practice ITMOs under Article 6.2 of the Paris Agreement. Mr. President, Thailand firmly believes that we have gathered here to do more than just talk. We need actions on all front and we need it now. I truly believe in humanity to consciously and collectively defin e our future. I am confident that working together, we will be able to fight against this common enemy we ourselves created. “Only together, shall the impossible become possible. ” Thank you. ขอบคุณครับ.