SPEECH BY HIS EXCELLENCY MEHMET ÖZHASEKİ MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND URBANIZATION REPUBLIC OF TURKEY UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE 22nd CONFERENCE OF PARTIES HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT (16 November 2016 – Mar rakech / MOROCCO ) 2 Honorable Chairman, Your Excellencies Ministers, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to avail this opportunity to express my pleasure to attend such an important conference. I would like to thank His Majesty the King of Morocco and His Majesty’s government for hosting such a timely organization on the African Continent. Distinguished Participants, Climate change is threatening the future of our world. Climate change knows no borders, and affects all countries at all levels of development. Climate change which is caused by human activities and its negative impacts, will cause us to pay increasingly higher prices. A global alliance is required to effectively address this problem that has multiple global impacts. For this reason, signing of the Paris Agreement was welcomed with great appreciation by the international community. We consider this agreement as a great success of the multilateral approach. We welcome that the Paris Agreement;  adopted “common but differentiated responsibilities” principle and  it introduces a dynamic, realistic and flexible system. Climate financing is one of the most significant elements of this agreement. I would like to clearly point out that the success of t he agreement depends on fulfilling commitments for financing and technology development and transfer. This is an important issue for Turkey, as well, which is classified as a developing country by all financial agencies as well as under other United Natio ns Conventions. Turkey as a developing country must have access to international technology development and transfer as well as finance mechanisms such as the Green Climate Fund. Now, our utmost expectation is that the decision pertaining to our demand s hall be taken here in Marrakech. Our demand is a justified and rightful demand! We acknowledge the Least Developed Countries and the Small Island States have priority to access to financial support. We are aware that these countries are the countries tha t are affected the most by climate change. Turkey has always supported these countries and will continue to support them. 3 Honourable Chairman, Distinguished Participants, Turkey is one of the countries with the least historical responsibility for climate change. However, we have participated in all endeavors against climate change problem at the highest level, which is impacting the destiny of the world. As the Republic of Turkey, we have established our 2030 road map for combatting climate change. Being a rapidly growing economy, we set our target to twenty one per cent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from business as usual by 2030 and we will accomplish this goal. We are planning to accomplish this target by realizing high quality infrastructure projects, utilizing clean technologies and obtaining energy efficiency. One of the leading clean technologies is solar energy. We are aiming at 10 thousand Megawatts of ins talled capacity by 2030. Today’s power of the projects currently approved exceeded 3 thousand Megawatts. We declared that we will increase electricity generation from wind power to a 16 thousands Megawatts capacity. In addition, we stated that we will utilize all of our possible hydraulic capacity. Another important sector in combatting climate change is the transportation sector and we have many investments in this sector. We transformed 41 of our 53 airports to eff icient water using, greenhouse gas emission sensitive airports in accordance with the Green Airport standards. We conduct many projects within the scope of combatting climate change at national and international scale. We attach importance to transform ing our cities environment friendly living spaces in all fields; from energy to transportation, from housing to waste management. We carry out studies on prevention of air, water, marine pollution. We are among the leading countries in the world in waste ma nagement. We recycle mining waste, waste oils, packaging waste, medical waste and waste batteries and we contribute to our economy. Our efforts will increase in time in accordance with our means and the international support we will receive. Honourable Chairman, Esteemed Participants, Let me sincerely point out one issue as I conlude my remarks. We are struggling under very difficult circumstances. We are combatting several terrorist organizations on one hand. On the other hand, we are taking care of over 3 million refugees fleeing from conflicts in neighbouring countries and we have spent over 12,5 billion US Dollars to meet the basic needs of Syrian refugees such as food, shelter, education, health etc. 4 Why are we doing this? Because we are humanbeings. We are talking about taking precautions to future threa ts and hundreds of people are here exerting efforts to find a solution to the problem of climate change. But right now at this moment children are d rowning in the Mediterranean. We will continue our open door policy for refugees but I just wanted to point out under what circumstances Turkey is struggling to combat climate change. Honourable Chairman, Esteemed Participants, As I conclude my remarks, I would like to express that Turkey would like to host the 26th Climate Change Conference to be held in 2020. We have officially submitted our application to the Secretariat. We believe that hosting the 26th Climate Change Conference will be a unique opportunity to provide the necessary momentum for creating a climate change resilient economy in our country and we await your support in this matter. I would like to underline that, as the Turkish Delegation, w e will continue with our constructive approach for the successful completion of the Conference. Thank you.