1 NATIONAL STATEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TÜRKİYE H.E. MR. RECEP TAYYİP ERDOĞAN The President of the Republic of Türkiye Distinguished Heads of State and Government, Honourable Secretary General, On behalf of myself and my Nation, I greet you with my most heartfelt feelings. I wish the World Climate Action Summit to be beneficial to all humanity. I would like to thank the Emirates’ authorities for their warm hospitality. Our world is confronted with the tragic consequences of the massacres in Gaza fol lowing the Covid -19 pandemic and the Ukraine -Russia war. Türkiye stands by peace during all these crises and works towards finding solutions on the basis of justice and equity. We approach to the issue of climate change from the same perspective. Even t hough our historical responsibility of the global greenhouse gas emissions is less than 1%, we are taking significant steps with our own means when it comes to combating climate change. We plan to reach the net -zero emission target as of 2053. We have do ubled our emission reduction target by 2030; in this regard we expect to mitigate 66,6 million ton equivalent carbon dioxides by the end of the year. We have increased the share of renewables in our installed power generation capacity to 55%. Türkiye is currently ranking the 5th in Europe and the 12th in the world in terms of installed renewable energy capacity. As regards to geothermal energy capacity, we are ranking the 1st in Europe and the 4th in the world. When it comes to hydropower, Türkiye is ra nking the 2nd in Europe and 9th in the world. 2 We have started off implementing our Hydrogen Technologies Strategy. Furthermore, we have prepared our roadmaps for decarbonization of the sectors such as steel, cement and fertilizer in the context of our net zero emission target. We envisage to increase the share of renewable energy to 69% in 2053. Thanks to the “Zero Waste Project” initiated under the auspices of my spouse Mrs. Emine Erdoğan, we will increase the rate of recycled waste to 60% in 2035. As you know, the cost of all these efforts is considerably high. In this respect, accessing to the climate finance resources and the means of technology transfer in a more equitable manner is of central importance. Despite the earthquake disaster occurred on 6 February, we do not give up on our targets neither on economy nor on combating climate change. Thanks to God, we are rapidly healing the wounds of the earthquake that affected 14 million people and 11 cities i n Türkiye. During the reconstruction process of our cities, our top priority is to protect the environment and to build climate and environment friendly structures. Dear Friends, While expressing our views on climate crisis, it is impossible not to touch upon the humanitarian crisis taking place in the Palestinian territories next to us. As a result of the Israeli assaults, killing of more than 16 thousand innocent Palestinian civilians, mostly children and women, cannot be justified under any circumstan ces. The incidents that happened in Gaza is a humanitarian crime, a war crime; the perpetrators must be held accountable before the international law. In the light of recent developments, we noticed together once again the importance of the establishment of an independent, sovereign State of Palestine, having territorial integrity based on the 1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its capital. We stand ready to take any responsibility in this process. I would like to emphasize once again our mottos "THE WOR LD IS BIGGER THAN FIVE" and “A MORE JUST WORLD IS POSSIBLE”. 3 Before concluding my remarks with these thoughts, I would like to thank notably my Distinguished Brothers, His Highness SHEIKH MOHAMED BIN ZAYED AL NAHYAN, the President of the UAE and His Highness SHEIKH MOHAMMED BIN RASHID AL MAKTOUM, the Vice President of the UAE and the Ruler of Dubai, and everyone contributing to the organization of this Summit. We will organize the 6 0th Session of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in İstanbul in January. Besides, we declared our candidacy to host the 31st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Agreement on Climate Change to be held in 2026. My distingui shed Friends, I have no doubt that you will provide the necessary support in this regard. I salute you all with affection and respect.