THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA NATIONAL STATEMENT DELIVERED AT THE HIGH LEVEL SEGMENT OF THE UNITED NATIONS CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE, MARRAKECH, MOROCCO (COP22/CMP12/CMA1) 16™ NOVEMBER 2016 BY H.E MR.SAM CHEPTORIS MINISTER OF WATER AND ENVIRONMENT AND HEAD OF THE GOVERNMENT DELEGATION TO COP22/CMP12/CMA1 REPRESENTING H.E.YOWERI K. MUSEVENI, PRESIDENT OF THE. REPUBLIC OF UGANDA Your Majesty, King Mohammed VI, Royal King of Morocco, Excellences Heads of State/Government Your Excellency Selaheddine Mezouar, President of COP 22 Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen; Mr President, Allow me from the outset to convey warm felicitations from H.E Yoweri Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda to His Majesty King Mohammed VI for hosting this important Conference. H.E. President Museveni had wished to participate at this Conference but due to other equally important official engagements, has not been able to do so; and delegated me to represent him. - My delegation joins other delegations who have expressed sincere gratitude to the Government and people of the Royal Kingdom of Morocco for the warm hospitality extended to us since our arrival. We also express our appreciation to H.E. Segolene Royal for the able manner in which she presided over COP 21. Uganda associates herself with the statements delivered by H.E General Al Sisi, President of the Republic of Egypt as Coordinator of the African Committee of the Heads of State and Government on Climate Change (CAHOSCC); as well as by Thailand on behalf of G77 and China. Mr President, Uganda welcomes the rapid entry into force of the Paris Agreement on 4 November 2016. We are proud to be among the first countries that triggered the early entry into force of this Agreement. We strongly believe that Marrakech offers a real first step to bring the much needed impetus for turning commitments made into actions. Mr. President, As part of this process, Uganda submitted her NDC in which we have prioritised adaptation and mitigation. We have identified priority interventions focusing on renewable energy, water for all uses climate smart agriculture, forestry, wetlands restoration, wastes and clean transport which remain central in our quest for transformative development into a middle income country. We are all aware that implementing these priority programmes will require enormous resources. For our part we are committed to mobilising whatever is within our means nationally. We urge our international development partners to fully implement the commitments they made under the Paris Agreement by providing the requisite financial and technical support to enable us achieve our aspirations. In this regard, we argue them to scale up the mobilisation of the targeted USD 100 billion by 2020 and maintain this momentum to 3 2025 and beyond. It is through such measures that we shall be able to keep temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius. In the same vein, we call upon the agencies managing these funds to simplify the procedures for accessing these funds by vulnerable countries such as Uganda. Mr. President, Uganda also urges for the speedy operationalization of the Paris Committee on Capacity Building so as to commence its work of addressing the specific needs of LDCs and other developing countries. On compliance, we call for a mechanism whose nature, scope, structure and output can constructively facilitate implementation of the Paris Agreement and compliance by Parties, individually or collectively.. Mr. President, we also urge for a speedy conclusion of the outstanding issue related to agriculture with a focus on adaptation; as well as a reaffirmation of the centrality of water as a key connector in the implementation of the SDGs. Mr. President In conclusion, I wish to assure you of Uganda’s commitment to the successful outcome of this Conference and to the implementation of its decisions. Mr. President, I thank you for your attention.