United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Your Majesty, your E xcellencies, it is an honour to represent the United Kingdom today. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the King of Morocco and His Government for their generous hospitality and assured organisation. The Paris Agreement was a historic achievement and the work that has been taking place here to prepare for its implementation is absolutely crucial – both in terms of the substance of what is agreed and for the signals it sends to ministries, businesses, NGOs and citizens around the world. Over the past year we have seen unprecedented global momentum and collecti ve commitment to tackling climate change, both in the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement and in the recent agreements on hydrofluorcarbons ( HFCs ) and on aviation emissions. It is imperative that we continue that momentum going forward:  Develop ing the rules that will underpin the Paris Agreement;  Preparing for - and providing support for - the implementation of our NDCs;  Helping those who need it most and will be most affected by climate change;  Showcasing real -world action that is already takin g place; and  Ratcheting up ambition The UK continues to play a leading role in this – driving progressive purpose in the negotiations, taking forward determined action at home and abroad, and proving that sustainability is central to long -term prosperity. In the UK, we are on track for our 2020 targets. The new Government also recently announced our new legally binding 5th Carbon Budget for the period 2028 - 32, equivalent to an emissions reduction of 57% by 2030 on 1990 levels and consistent with the long term goal of at least an 80% reduction by 2050. Just last week, we set out proposals to phase out electricity generation from unabated coal - fired power stations. Abroad, we have committed over £10bn in climate finance from 2009 to 2020. At this COP I have made announcements on UK contributions to initiatives on capacity building, forests, responsible sourcing, tackling poll ution, exciting new partnerships, research and development in clean energy, and renewable energy in Africa, and I have underlined the collective commitment of developed countries to mobilise climate finance to support both mitigation and adaptation. The U nited Kingdom is committed to ambitious climate action and to work with partners to implement the Paris Agreement. But there is more to be done, we need to raise our collective ambition, together we must work harder and faster to achieve our transformatio nal goal. NICK HURD MP Minister of State for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy