Vanuatu Statement delivered by The Minister of Climate Change, Adaptation, Geo-Hazard, Environment and Energy, the Honorable Ham Lini Vanuaroroa At the High-Level Segment of the 22"! Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Tuesday 15 November 2016 Marrakech, Morocco Mr. President, Congratulations on your assumption of the Presidency. On behalf of the Prime Minister and the people of the Republic of Vanuatu, please allow me to express our deepest gratitude to you and to the Kingdom of Morocco for the kind hospitality extended to our delegation. Vanuatu associates itself with statements made by G77 & China, the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) and the Least Developed Countries (LDC) who continue to be leaders in the UNFCCC processes. I stand before you today from the world’s MOST VULNERABLE country on the planet (ranked by the UN for the last 5 years in a row). But it is not just my country that is at stake; no nation — large or small, wealthy or poor — is immune to climate change. That is why I am so proud that Vanuatu is one of the now over 100 countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement. Our collective task here in Morocco is to put in place the necessary processes for rapid implementation of the Paris Agreement. To that end, we must quickly move towards a work approach that sets very concrete timelines and deliverables. Climate change is real, and Vanuatu, along with our small islands and least-developed friends, are already taking the lead in addressing it. What was achieved in Paris was monumental, and this gives my people hope and a growing realization that it is within our power, together a global community, to actually solve the climate crisis. Vanuatu has high hopes that outcome decisions from COP22 will: - Quickly reconvene CMA1 and mandate the APA and the SBs to progress their work as soon as possible - Give my people the confidence, accessibility, predictability and sustainability on the climate finance required for dealing with a problem of this scale, specifically decisions highlighting the reality that 100 billion is no longer a “long-term” or an adequate climate finance goal. There needs to be a new ambitious goal that is a scaling up of the $100 billion floor. - Outline transparent modalities for the accounting of financial resources not just announced but mobilized - Review of the Warsaw International Mechanism that is completed in a timely and thorough manner so that islanders in Vanuatu can start to rebuild after the devastating losses and damages suffered from extreme climate events. 2 - Draw clear and robust links between the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism of the Convention. - Continue the Lima Work Program on Gender and ensure that UNFCCC core budget for 2017 and beyond covers gender activities - Provide enhanced, direct and simplified access for countries like Vanuatu to the Green Climate Fund, Adaptation Fund, Special Climate Change Fund, and the Least Developed Counties Fund. While everything that we agree to here will put on the right path, the real story of climate change solutions is an energy story. The most gripping chapter of the energy story spans the last 150 years where oil and gas has ruled. But thankfully that story is now changing. This year my own country suffered a crippling El Nino drought, plunging thousands into severe food severity crisis. But at the same time our civil society organizations strengthened the resilience of thousands of indigenous villages and community disaster and climate change committees. Here in Morocco we need to operationalize the Paris Agreement in a way that immediately turns the many challenges into opportunities. Although the commitments made since COP21 may still fall short of our 1.5°C desired response, we at COP22 in Marrakesh are going to ratchet up, and never rein back, our ambition. We have a moral obligation to protect this planet for our children and our grandchildren. The next generation is watching what we do. I thank you Mr. President.