STATEMENT BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF VIET NAM H.E. VO TUAN NHAN, DEPUTY MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT AT THE 23rd SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE Mr. Chair, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government of Viet Nam, I would like to express our appreciation to the Republic of Fiji and the Federal Republic of Germany for hosting this important Conference. Mr. Chair, Climate change has been hitting us hard all around the world. Many developed and developing countries have suffered seriously from its impacts. Extreme weather, typhoons, floods and droughts have resulted in increasing economic and human losses, hampering our pursuit of sustainable development. Those, who recently attended the APEC Economic Leader’s Week in Viet Nam, witnessed how devastating it was when Typhoon Damrey ripped into my country. It is imperative to take immediate action s to protect our people and socio -economic development achievements from severe impacts of climate change by strengthening their ad aptive capacity and resilience while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. To that end, Viet Nam w ishes to underline the followings: First, the pre -2020 actions are very i mportant. The Doha Amendment must be brought into force without any further delay for trust building and momentum creation for post -2020 actions under the Convention and the Paris Agreement. Second, the modalities and guidelines are of the utmost importance for Parties to fully implement the Paris Agreement and should be address ed in a balanced, comprehensive and inter-linked manner for all key elements of the Agreement. A clear vision on the Agreement operating system is needed at this COP to meet the deadline next year. Third, the provision of financial support, technology transfer, and capacity building for developing countries to implement their responses to climate change must be realized with all due haste to ens ure that NDCs are swiftly translated into action on the ground. Mr. Chair, As a committed Party to the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol and Paris Agreement, Viet Nam is implementing its action plan, focus ing on the implementation of our NDC s and the Paris Agreement with the participation of all stakeholders. Viet Nam has started to review its NDC s. At this COP, Viet Nam has also submitted its Second BUR. As a country vulnerable to climate change, Viet Nam has been making every effort to build its adaptive capacity and resilience, especially for those ar eas most affected. In September this year, the Government hosted an international conference on shaping the shift to a sustainable development and climate change adaptive model for Meko ng Delta, which is one of the biggest agriculture regions in Southeast Asia. Such continuous effort s of the Government, alongside with private sector contributions and international support, will set a clear future course of responding to climate change in Viet Nam, making a contribu tion to global efforts. Viet Nam looks forward to promoting further cooperation with the international community for the well -being of our planet and people. Thank you very much./.