Republic of Zambia ZAMBIA’S STATEMENT TO THE TWENT Y-FIFTH SESSION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PARTIES (COP -25) TO THE UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVEN TION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (UNFCCC) HOSTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN UNDER THE PRESIDENCY OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE MADRID, SPAIN DECEMBER 2019 2 • As a consequence of serving time I ride on the protocols already observed and the congratulatory messages to your Presidency and the excellent organisation of the Conference. The Government of the Republic of Zambia is also grateful to the Government and people of the Kingdom of Spain for hosting this important Conference and the warm hospitality extended to my delegation since our arrival. Madam President, your leadership comes at a crucial stage of finalizing the outstanding matters towards the full operationalization of the Paris Agreement. My delegation is confident that your personal dedication to the process will steer discussions to a fruitful conclu sion. Zambia wishes to reiterate her unwavering support to your Presidency and commit to make productive and constructive constructive to the process. Zambia notes with great concern that threat s posed to our socio- economic development by climate change are i ncreasing in frequency, intensity and scale. 3 Yet, despite the clear evidence, the collective efforts of the international community to address this challenge continue to lag behind the desired ambition that has been guided by the latest developments in science. It is against this scenario that Zambia put forward an ambitious Nationally Determined Contribution to make a practical and moral contribution to the global goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and maintaining the 1.5 degrees Celsius average global temperature rise. Your Excellency ; While Zambia is still pursuing her aspirations on socio-economic development, it is mindful of the need to maintain a healthy environment in order to achieve sustainable development. Your 2018 inaugural message, Madam President, carries even more meaning today to say: “ the only way to achieve sustainable development is by considering t he care and respect for the environment ”. Zambia agree s with you entirely and wish to add that a recipe to a healthy climate is a healthy environment. 4 The Zambian Governm ent is committed to contribute to the global effort of addressing climate change, however, our domestic resources continue to be over-stretched in responding to emergencies resulting from climate change impacts. We take th e global challenge of climate change seriously and as a result, we have created a policy environment that allows both state and non -state actors to take action s on mitigation and adaptation through the Nationally Determined Contri bution implementation plan. The Government of Zambia has also embarked on formulat ing climate change legislation to provide a legal framework for climate action in the country and strengthen efforts of various players to achieve meaningful outcomes. There is still increasing evidence that climate change is negatively impact ing critical sectors of our country. In the recent past, drastic reduction in precipitation and rising temperatures in Zambia has led to a reduced agricultural productivity by about 16% and subsequently slowed down our economic growth. 5 The declining water availability and the impact on hydro -power generation and supply have had negative effect s not only on direct water -dependent sectors such as agriculture and energy but also on household incomes, nutrition, human health and the environm ent. However, despite responding to the global call to put up national ambitions, our Nationally Determined Contribution is still short of resources to be implemented. More so, our NDC is short of resources to invest in alternative renewable energy sourc es, water resource management infrastructure and resilience building for the human and ecological systems. Your Excellency, Let me outline some areas of concern that Zambia sees as gaps in achieving desired results on climate change : 1) Ambitious national aspirations in countries like Zambia are not receiving adequate financial technological and technical support to match the level of ambition; 2) National capacities to meet reporting requirements under the Paris Agreement remain low and making it difficult to accurately reflect national circumstances; 6 3) The procedures and modalities for accessing support, particularly funding to implement climate change programmes remain daunting and a serious bottleneck to developing countries; 4) The uncertainty in the carbon market under the Paris Agreement has so far not helped send a positive signal to the private sector to leverage their meaningful participation. Zambia therefore call s for the se negotiations to place urgency on concluding on outstanding matters for the operationalization of the Paris Agreement and demonstrate commitments towards suppor ting developing countries’ NDCs as we approach the 2020 milestone. In conclusion, I wish to assure you, Your Excellency, of Zambia’s commitment to supporting your P residency during your tenure and that we will engage constructively with other P arties to ensure a successful global action for the survival of humanity and ecosystems. I thank you for your attention.