REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA MINISTRY OF GREEN ECONOMY AND ENVIRONMENT ZAMBIA’S NATIONAL STATEMENT TO THE WORLD CLIMATE ACTION SUMMIT TO BE DELIVERED BY MR. HAKAINDE HICHILEMA PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA WORLD CLIMATE ACTION SUMMIT THEATRE, DUBAI EXHIBITION CENTRE DUBAI, UNITED ARA B EMIRATE S DECEMBER 2023 1 • Your Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates ; • Your Excellencies fellow Heads of State and Governments present; • The Secretary General of the United Nations Mr. Antonio Guterres; • The Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framewor k Convention on Climate Change, Mr. Simon Stiell; • Distinguished invited Guests; • Ladies and Gentlemen. • It is a great honour and privilege for me to address you all at this important World Action Climate Summit and Twenty Eighth Session of the Conference of Parties (COP -28) on Climate Change, to speak on a pressing issue at a time when the future of our world and the globe is at stake. • Allow me to, first and foremost, commend Your Highness and the Government of the United Arab Emirates including your people for the hospitality extended to my delegation since our arrival in the beautiful city of Dubai ; • This Summit comes at a time when the world record s unprecedent ed record -breaking temperatures. Even as we gather here, we are offtrack in meeting the aspirations of the Paris Agreement. The 2023 Emissions Gap Report is unequivocal in stating that, firstly, fully implementing unconditional Nationally Determined Con tribution s (NDCs ) leaves us with a mitigation gap of 2.9 degrees Celsius. Secondly, fully 2 implementing conditional NDCs still leaves us with a mitigation gap of 2.5 degrees Celsius, above pre -industrial levels by the turn of this century. Your Excellencies I need not remind you that the goal of the Paris Agreement is to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius or at best 1.5 degrees Celsius. • Your Excellencies we are calling upon all of us to rise to the occasion and do that which is necessary for us to deal effective ly with the causes of climate change. This is extremely important given that there is a limit to adaptation. Your Excellencies • We have taken note of your proposed paradigm shifts in the following areas in order for the world to effectively address climate ch ange: (a) Fast-tracking the just, equitable and orderly energy transition and slashing emissions before 2030; (b) Transforming climate finance by delivering on old promises and setting the framework for a new deal on finance; (c) Putting nature, people, lives and livelihoods at the heart of climate action ; and (d) Mobilizing for an inclusive COP. • Indeed, only a paradigm shift will enable us to address the challenge of climate change effectively and ensure that we avert any devastating effects. • We have been on a business as usual path and it is clearly not working! COP28 must, therefore, accelerate practical action on mitigation, 3 adaptation, loss and damage and climate finance, and no one must be left behind. Your Excellencies • Let me hasten to say that the just transition is inevitable and in Zambia we have already embarked on this journey where we are working towards ensuring that our energy mix comes largely from renewable sources by 2030, and we need support to do even more. • Excellencies, we need strong international collaboration and support, in order for us to successfully unde rtake the completion of the first Global Stocktake under the Paris Agreement which should mark a turning point on climate action in this critical decade. • We look forward to strengthened commitments that will inform immediate and future climate action, including clear pathways to achieve emissions reductions, enhance resilience and the necessary finance flows. • It is also very important that confiden ce in this multilateral process is restored by delivering on previous financial commitments made. • Zambia and Africa as a whole, boast of vast areas of forests which play a critical role in averting climate change. However, we need to ensure that the communities that have nurtured these forests are involved in climate action and are fairly compensated for their roles. Your Excellencies • Africa has every confidence that the UAE will deliver a successful COP 28 which we will all be proud of. From our standpoint, a successful COP 28 should tick the following boxes, among others : 4 Q (a) Ensuring that the fund and funding arrangements for loss and damage adop ted in Sharm El Sheikh is operational, adequately resourced and ready to support vulnerable countries experiencing extreme and slow onset climate events ; (b) Undertake a comprehensive global stock take exercise and identify clear interventions that bridge the glaring gaps in order to bring us back on track in meeting the goal of the Paris Agreement ; and (c) Strengthen the adaptation response by adopting a robust framework on the Global Go al on Adaptation, comp lete with indicators, to ensure that we can collectively track progress in building resilience. • Finally, Your Highness, you can count on the support of the African Group of negotiators and Zambia, in ensuring that we support you in hosting a successful COP 28. I THANK YOU FOR YOUR KIND ATTENTION.