Government of the Republic of Zambia ZAMBIA’S NATIONAL STATEMENT TO THE TWENTY - SECOND SESSION OF THE UNITED NATIONS CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE HELD IN MARRAKECH, MOROCCO FROM 7TH TO 18TH NOVEMBER, 2016 DELIVERED BY HIS EXCELLENCY MR. EDGAR CHAGWA LUNG U PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA NOVEMBER, 2016 2  Your Majesty, Mohammed VI, King of Morocco ;  Your Excellency, the United Nations Secretary General, Mr. BAN Ki – Moon;  The President of the Twenty -second Session of the Conference of Parties to th e United Nations Framework Convention o n Climate Change, H.E. Mr. Salaheddine Mezouar ;  The Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Ms Patricia Espinosa,  Heads of Delegations;  Distinguished delegates On behalf of t he Zambian Government, allow me to join the other speakers bef ore me to congratulate you, Your Majesty, for convening this special event to celebrate the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on 4th November, 2016. This is indeed unprecedented, historica l and a victory for multilateralism. T his important conference offers another opportunity for Parties to demonstrate their commitment to address the global problem of climate change by taking ambitious actions to reduce emissions and build momentum towards implementation of the Paris Agreement. I wish to assure you of my country’s total support in ensuring that this Conference succeeds in delivering tangible outcomes that would enhance the im plementation of the Convention and strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change. 3 Your Majesty, My Government is deeply concerned that climate change poses a serious threat to our survival and has potential to reverse the developmental gains that the country has achieved so far. The re is a growing ri sk of adverse climate change and catastrophic impact, particularly in Agriculture, Water and Sanitation, Energy, infrastructure and Health sectors. For instance, t he recent variability and unpredictable nature of the climate has also undermined critical se ctors of the economy such as agriculture which has resulted in reduced agricultural productivity and perennial food shortages. In the energy sector, the decreased rainfall experienced in the past few years has resulted in reduced water levels in our major water bodies. This has led to the power deficit and subsequent load shedding through rationing power usage as the country depends largely on hydropower. Consequently, there has been a resultant loss of productivity in critical sectors of the economy such as Mining, Manufacturing and Agriculture. Your Majesty, My Government has taken the problem of climate change serious ly and is pu tting up measures to address it. In this regard my Government signed the Paris Agreement on 20th September, 2016 4 whose entry into force we are commemorating at this special event. By signing the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, my country renewed its commitments and resolves to take action on the ground that can put it on a path to sustainable prosperity. To this effect, my Government has ratified the Agreement and will soon deposit the instruments of ratification to the United Nations. Your Majesty, In an effort to transition to a low carbon and climate resilient development pathway, my Government has embarked on a number of actions that will address climate change and ensure a safer and brighter futur e for our citizens. These include: 1. Formulati ng a National Policy on Climate Change ; 2. Develop ing Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) in the Agriculture, Energy, Transport, Waste Management and Forestry Sectors ; 3. Implementing Climate S mart Agriculture ; 4. Scaling up the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency ; 5. Promoting sustainable management of forests and enhancement of the carbon sinks; 6. Climate proofing of in frastructure, such as roads and canal s; and 5 7. Strengthening of the early warning system s. Your Majesty, My Government’s expectations from the Marrake ch Conference include the following :  The parties should build on the momentum g athered in Paris to take t he climate change agenda forward and put in place necessary mechanisms for effective implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change ;  Adoption of strategic decisions under the first Meeting of Parties to the Paris Agreement that would facilitate finalisation of modalities, procedures and guidelines for effective implementation of the provisions of the Paris Agreement during the time that the first Meeting of Parties will be suspended;  Scaled up provision of financial support to developing countrie s such as Zambia to implement their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC s) and other obligations under the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement ; and  Prioritise the implementation of Mitigation and Adaptation programmes elaborated in the Nationally Determined Contribution s submitted by Parties, as well as explicitly elaborated in various Articles of the Paris Agreement. 6 Finally, Your Majesty, As I conclude, our expectation is that the outcome at this important Conference will pro vide p olitical re -assurance and catalyse global action to minimize the adverse climate change impacts. I wish to assure you of Zambia’s commitment in supporting you r presidency during your tenure. I thank you.